Abafar A desert planet located in the Outer Rim with a completely white surface. Known as The Void, the planet is barely populated but is home to massive amounts of rhydonium, a scarce and volatile fuel.

Admiral Ackbar Fleet Admiral Gial Ackbar is a fictional character from the Star Wars franchise. A member of the amphibious Mon Calamari species, Ackbar was the foremost military commander of the Rebel Alliance, and he led the attack against the second Death Star in Star Wars: Return of the Jedi (1983), the final entry in the original Star Wars trilogy. Although his time in the film was brief, Ackbar became a prominent character in other Star Wars media, including novels, comic books, video games, and television shows, and later made appearances in the sequel trilogy films Star Wars: The Force Awakens (2015) and Star Wars: The Last Jedi (2017), and the television series The Clone Wars. With his distinctive salmon-colored skin, webbed hands, high-domed head, and large fish-like eyes, Ackbar was realized in Return of the Jedi through the use of either a half-body puppet or full-body costume, depending on the camera angle required. In all three films he was portrayed by puppeteer Timothy D. Rose, who originally played other characters, but requested to also play Ackbar after seeing his sculpt on a display stand. Ackbar was voiced by Erik Bauersfeld, who made up the voice on the spot after looking at a photograph of Ackbar. Bauersfeld voiced the character in Return of the Jedi and The Force Awakens, but died before the filming of The Last Jedi, in which he was replaced by Tom Kane, who had voiced Ackbar in other works of Star Wars media. Ackbar was originally planned to be more conventionally humanoid, but after Star Wars creator George Lucas decided to make him an alien, he allowed Return of the Jedi director Richard Marquand to pick from various designs. Marquand picked a sketch by concept artist Nilo Rodis-Jamero, over the objections of other members of the film crew who thought the character looked too silly or ugly. Ackbar made his first appearance not in the film, but in a Star Wars newspaper comic strip that ran a few months before Return of the Jedi was released. Lucas was not entirely pleased with the final result of the character in the film and felt it was a compromise. Ackbar's first name, Gial, was not established until April 2012. Ackbar had just 14 lines of dialogue in Return of the Jedi, and his total screen time across all three film appearances totaled only three minutes and 30 seconds. Nevertheless, he is considered a fan favorite among Star Wars characters, and was ranked No. 16 in a 1998 list of the "Top 20 Star Wars Characters" in the magazine Star Wars Insider. His line "It's a trap!" from Return of the Jedi(1:35) became one of the most famous, quoted and beloved lines from the original Star Wars trilogy, as well as a popular Internet meme. Many fans expressed disappointment and frustration with Ackbar's sudden death in The Last Jedi, calling it abrupt and unceremonious, a sentiment echoed by Ackbar actors Rose and Kane, as well as the film's editor Bob Ducsay. They believed that a distinguished war hero, comparable to Winston Churchill, should have been given a more ceremonious death.

Admiral Piett Admiral Firmus Piett is a fictional character from the Star Wars franchise, first introduced and portrayed by Kenneth Colley in the 1980 film The Empire Strikes Back. As a supporting villain in command of Darth Vader's flagship, Executor, Piett is generally considered to be the most prominent Imperial officer in the film. He subsequently appeared in the sequel Return of the Jedi, making him the only officer in the original trilogy to appear in more than one film and be portrayed by the same actor. Piett also appears in the canon Star Wars novel Lost Stars, and is featured in several more novels, comic books, and video games within the Star Wars Legends line.

Ahch-To Largely oceanic planet on which Luke Skywalker has been hiding for several years, and the location of the first Jedi Temple and the Tree Library of sacred Jedi texts. Porgs, Lanai and thala-sirens are among the native species.

Ahsoka (TV series) Ahsoka, also known as Star Wars: Ahsoka, is an American space fantasy television series created by Dave Filoni for the streaming service Disney+. It is part of the Star Wars franchise and a spin-off from The Mandalorian, taking place in the same timeframe as that series and its other interconnected spin-offs after the events of the film Return of the Jedi (1983). Ahsoka follows former Jedi apprentice Ahsoka Tano and her allies as they fight the remnants of the Galactic Empire during the time of the fledgling New Republic. Rosario Dawson stars as the title character, reprising her role from The Mandalorian. Natasha Liu Bordizzo, Mary Elizabeth Winstead, Ray Stevenson, Ivanna Sakhno, Diana Lee Inosanto, David Tennant, Eman Esfandi, Evan Whitten, Genevieve O'Reilly, Hayden Christensen, Ariana Greenblatt, Lars Mikkelsen, and Anthony Daniels also star. Ahsoka Tano was co-created by Filoni for the animated series Star Wars: The Clone Wars. Dawson was cast to bring her into live-action for the second season of The Mandalorian, and a spin-off series with Dawson reprising her role and Filoni set as showrunner was announced by Lucasfilm in December 2020. It serves as a continuation of the animated series Star Wars Rebels. In addition to Filoni, Jon Favreau, Kathleen Kennedy, and Colin Wilson returned from The Mandalorian as executive producers and were joined by Carrie Beck. Ahsoka premiered on August 22, 2023, with the first two episodes of the first season. The other six episodes were released through October 3. The season received high viewership, generally positive reviews from critics, and several accolades. In January 2024, Lucasfilm confirmed that Filoni was developing a second season. "Part One: Master and Apprentice" Baylan Skoll, a fallen Jedi, and his apprentice Shin Hati assault a New Republic cruiser to free Morgan Elsbeth. Morgan informs them that former Jedi Ahsoka Tano, who apprehended and interrogated Morgan, is searching for a star map that will lead to Thrawn. The last remaining grand admiral of the fallen Galactic Empire, Thrawn has been missing for years since he and rebel hero Ezra Bridger were taken to an unknown location by a pod of purrgil (space whales). Ahsoka fears that Thrawn could return and help rebuild the Empire, but is also hopeful that Ezra can be found alive. She and the ancient Jedi-training droid Huyang obtain the star map based on information from Morgan, but are unable to unlock it. New Republic general Hera Syndulla informs Ahsoka of Morgan's escape and suggests she get help unlocking the map from Sabine Wren, Ahsoka's former Padawan learner; Hera and Sabine were both close with Ezra before his disappearance. Ahsoka reluctantly visits Sabine, who she has not seen in years, on Lothal. After Sabine unlocks the map, Shin steals it and stabs Sabine during a lightsaber duel. "Part Two: Toil and Trouble" Baylan and Shin take the map to the planet Seatos. Morgan explains that Thrawn is trapped in another galaxy and the map shows the path to get there, starting from Seatos. While recovering from Shin's attack, Sabine tells Ahsoka about the map but does not know which planet the path to the other galaxy starts on. Ahsoka defeats an assassin droid that Shin left behind on Lothal and Sabine traces its origins to Morgan's factories on Corellia. Ahsoka and Hera travel to the Corellian shipyards where they discover a massive hyperdrive being built by workers loyal to the Empire. As a transport takes off with the hyperdrive, Hera chases after it while Ahsoka duels Marrok, a former Jedi-hunting Imperial Inquisitor who is working with Baylan and Shin. Marrok and the transport escape, but not before Hera's astromech droid Chopper attaches a tracking device to the transport. Ahsoka and Hera arrest the shipyard workers. After a discussion with Huyang, Sabine decides that she wants to accompany Ahsoka and become her Padawan again. Ahsoka gets Sabine from Lothal and they follow the tracking device to Seatos. "Part Three: Time to Fly" Sabine restarts her lightsaber training under Ahsoka and Huyang's guidance, but struggles with her inability to use the Force like other Jedi. Hera meets with New Republic chancellor Mon Mothma and several senators and asks them to send additional forces to Seatos. Her request is denied when Senator Hamato Xiono, who does not believe Thrawn and Ezra are alive, accuses Hera of using the threat of Thrawn's return to re-direct resources to a futile search for Ezra. Ahsoka, Sabine, and Huyang arrive at Seatos and discover the Eye of Sion, Morgan's large starship which the hyperdrive is being installed in. Shin and Marrok attack with a squadron of fighters, during which Ahsoka attempts to continue Sabine's lessons. Forced to land on the planet below, they pass through a pod of purrgil, evade the fighters, and hide in a forest. Based on a scan of the Eye of Sion, Huyang determines that the ship can make an unusually fast and long hyperspace jump which would allow Morgan to reach the other galaxy, something that migrating purrgil can do naturally. Baylan sends Shin, Marrok, and assassin droids to find them. "Part Four: Fallen Jedi" Ahsoka, Sabine, and Huyang dispatch Baylan's droids. Fearing that Morgan and Baylan will soon have what they need to jump to the other galaxy, Ahsoka and Sabine head towards Baylan's location. Huyang asks them to stay together, and Ahsoka warns Sabine that they may need to give up the chance to find Ezra if it means preventing Thrawn's return. Confronted by Shin and Marrok, Ahsoka kills Marrok while Sabine fights Shin and encourages Ahsoka to go on alone. Ahsoka engages Baylan and retrieves the map, but drops it when it burns her hand. Shin flees when Sabine gets the upperhand, and Sabine arrives to see Baylan send Ahsoka plummeting into the ocean. Sabine threatens to destroy the map, but hands it over when Baylan promises to reunite her with Ezra. The map's details are uploaded to the Eye of Sion and then Baylan destroys the map. They jump to hyperspace as Hera arrives, against orders, with a squadron of New Republic fighters. Ahsoka awakens in the "World Between Worlds", a mystical plane that connects different points of time, and sees her former master Anakin Skywalker. "Part Five: Shadow Warrior" Anakin tells Ahsoka that she has a chance to survive and he has come to finish her training. He asks her to choose to live, and attacks her. On Seatos, Hera and Huyang search for Ahsoka and Sabine. Hera's son Jacen, who has a connection to the Force like his father Kanan Jarrus, hears the sounds of Ahsoka and Anakin fighting and directs the search party. Ahsoka relives fragments of her youth during the Clone Wars and expresses concerns about her legacy as a soldier and as the student of Anakin, who fell to the dark side and became the Sith lord Darth Vader before being redeemed with his death. As Anakin continues to fight her, Ahsoka comes to terms with these issues and chooses to live on. Anakin disappears and the others find Ahsoka in the ocean. The next day she wakes up with a new outlook on life and uses the Force to determine that Sabine went with Baylan to the new galaxy. New Republic forces arrive to take Hera and Ahsoka into custody. Before they can, Ahsoka and Huyang enter the mouth of a purrgil so the pod can take them to the new galaxy. Hera and Jacen remain behind. "Part Six: Far, Far Away" The Eye of Sion arrives at Peridea, the ancient homeworld of Morgan's people—the Nightsister witches—who were the first to harness the purrgil and travel between galaxies. Morgan, Baylan, Shin, and Sabine meet the Great Mothers, three Nightsisters still living on Peridea who are allies of Thrawn and who used their Force magic to call Morgan to them. Baylan reveals to Shin that he is searching for a great power on Peridea that he learned about in Jedi folktales. He hopes to use this to end the cycle of war and destruction between the light and dark sides of the Force, as seen with the fall of the Jedi and rise of the Empire. Thrawn arrives aboard his Star Destroyer, the Chimaera, and honors Baylan's promise by providing Sabine with provisions and a mount to search for Ezra. After she leaves, Thrawn has Baylan and Shin follow her so they can kill both her and Ezra once the latter is found. Surviving an ambush by bandits, Sabine encounters a local tribe, the Noti, and goes to their village where she reunites with Ezra. The Great Mothers sense Ahsoka's imminent arrival and Thrawn prepares his defences. "Part Seven: Dreams and Madness" At a disciplinary hearing on Coruscant, Senator Xiono requests that Hera be court-martialed for disobeying orders. Senator Leia Organa, an ally to Hera and Ahsoka, sends her protocol droid C-3PO with fake evidence that Hera's actions were a miscommunication; the court absolves Hera. She and Mothma discuss the threat of Thrawn's possible return. Sabine catches Ezra up with what he has missed since disapearing. When the purrgil arrive at Peridea, they enter a minefield left by Thrawn. Ahsoka and Huyang exit their purrgil's mouth before it flees, and hide in a debris field until Ahsoka locates Sabine through the Force. Ezra, Sabine, and the Noti are attacked by Shin, the bandits, and Thrawn's night troopers. Sabine offers Ezra's old lightsaber to him, but he tells her to keep it and fights with the Force instead. Ahsoka confronts Baylan, but he leaves to pursue his own agenda. Realizing that Baylan is no longer fighting for him, Thrawn withdraws his troops after Ahsoka arrives. Shin is left behind and flees after spurning an invitation from Ahsoka to join them. Ahsoka reunites with Sabine and Ezra. "Part Eight: The Jedi, the Witch, and the Warlord" The Chimaera is loaded with a mysterious cargo and docks with the Eye of Sion. Ezra constructs a new lightsaber using spare parts from the saber of Kanan, his master. Huyang tells Ezra that Ahsoka originally stopped training Sabine out of fear for her potential after Sabine's family were killed during the purge of Mandalore. Ahsoka now says she is committed to Sabine. Ahsoka, Sabine, and Ezra are attacked by Thrawn's night troopers and Morgan. The Great Mothers use magic to resurrect the troopers each time they are killed. While Ahsoka duels Morgan, Sabine and Ezra reach the Chimaera as it departs. Sabine uses the Force for the first time to save herself, and then uses it again to help Ezra onto the Chimaera; she stays behind to help Ahsoka, who kills Morgan. Thrawn and the Great Mothers arrive in the other galaxy at the Nightsister planet Dathomir. Ezra sneaks away and reunites with Hera. On Peridea, Shin joins the bandits; Baylan discovers statues of the Mortis gods that point the way for his journey; and Ahsoka, Sabine, and Huyang settle in with the Noti while Anakin's spirit watches over them.

Ahsoka Tano Ahsoka Tano is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. She was introduced as the 14-year-old Togruta Jedi Padawan of Anakin Skywalker in the animated film Star Wars: The Clone Wars (2008) before appearing in the subsequent animated television series (2008–2014; 2020); the sequel series Star Wars Rebels (2014–2018); in the live-action film Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker (2019) as a voiceover cameo; and in the miniseries Tales of the Jedi (2022), voiced by Ashley Eckstein. In 2020, Ahsoka made her live-action debut in the second season of the Disney+ series The Mandalorian, portrayed by Rosario Dawson. Dawson reprised the role in a 2022 episode of the spin-off series The Book of Boba Fett, and the 2023 series, Ahsoka.

Ajan Kloss A jungle moon which serves as a new base of operations for the Resistance. Years before, Leia and Luke were training there. Leia Organa dies here after using the last of her energy to reach out to her son through the Force.

Alderaan Forests, mountains; home planet of Princess Leia and the House of Organa. Destroyed by the first Death Star as punishment for involvement in the Rebel Alliance and also as a demonstration of power.

Aldhani A temperate, alpine planet with highlands, valleys, forests, and lakes sacred to the indigenous Dhani people, until they were relocated by the Empire, having established a base situated within a dam housing a vault funding its military.

Anaxes A rocky planet located in the Azure sector of the galaxy's Core Worlds region. A majority of its surface was covered with tall, red plant-like life. In the early years of the Imperial Era, the planet was destroyed in a cataclysm, with the remains becoming the Anaxes asteroid belt.

Andor (TV series) Andor, also known as Star Wars: Andor, is an American science fiction television series created by Tony Gilroy for the streaming service Disney+. It is part of the Star Wars franchise and a prequel to the film Rogue One (2016), which in turn is a prequel to the original Star Wars film (1977). The series follows thief-turned-rebel spy Cassian Andor during the five years that lead to the events of the two films, exploring how he becomes radicalized against the Galactic Empire and how the wider Rebel Alliance is formed. Diego Luna reprises his role as Cassian Andor from Rogue One and serves as an executive producer. The series also stars Kyle Soller, Adria Arjona, Stellan Skarsgård, Fiona Shaw, Genevieve O'Reilly, Denise Gough, Faye Marsay, Varada Sethu, and Elizabeth Dulau. Lucasfilm announced a series focused on Andor in November 2018, with Luna attached and Stephen Schiff hired as showrunner. Schiff was replaced by Rogue One co-writer Gilroy as creator and showrunner in April 2020. Filming took place at Pinewood Studios in London and on location around the United Kingdom, with Neal Scanlan returning from Rogue One to provide practical effects. The first season, which tells a year of Andor's story when he first becomes a revolutionary, was filmed from November 2020 to September 2021 during the COVID-19 pandemic. The second season covers the next four years leading up to Rogue One, and was filmed from November 2022 to February 2024 with breaks and delays due to the 2023 Hollywood labor disputes. Nicholas Britell composed the series' original score. Andor premiered on September 21, 2022, with the first three episodes of the first season. The other nine episodes of the season were released weekly through November 23. The first season received positive reviews from critics, who considered it the "most complex, mature story in Star Wars lore", as well as several accolades. It was nominated for three Primetime Emmy Awards including Outstanding Drama Series. The second and final season was expected to be released in August 2024, but the production delays mean it will likely not air before 2025. "Kassa" Five years before the Battle of Yavin, Cassian Andor looks for his missing sister on the industrial planet of Morlana One. While investigating, Cassian is antagonized by two officers. An altercation ensues, leading to Cassian accidentally killing one officer and murdering the other. On the planet Ferrix, he attempts to hide his involvement by convincing his adopted mother, Maarva, her droid, B2EMO, and his friend, Brasso, to cover for him. Having a Starpath Unit, a valuable piece of Imperial navigation technology, Cassian asks his friend Bix to connect him with a black market buyer. Bix agrees and contacts the buyer. Meanwhile, Bix's boyfriend, Timm, is suspicious of Andor. To improve his report to the Imperial authorities, Morlana One's chief inspector of security elects to cover up the two killings. However, his deputy, the dutiful Syril Karn, is determined to solve the case. He identifies Cassian's ship, traces it to Ferrix and learns that the fugitive is from the planet Kenari. In a flashback, a younger Cassian, known as Kassa, joins a group on Kenari who set off to locate a crashed ship. Kassa rebuffs his younger sister's efforts to join the search, leaving her behind in their tribal encampment. "That Would Be Me" Timm, still suspicious of Bix's relationship with Cassian, reports Cassian to Pre-Mor Security, which had issued a warrant for his arrest. Karn partners with Sergeant Linus Mosk, an equally dutiful Pre-Mor officer, to arrest Cassian. B2EMO informs Cassian and Maarva of the warrant. Cassian prepares to flee the planet. Meanwhile, Luthen Rael—Bix's buyer—travels to Ferrix to obtain the Starpath Unit. In a flashback, Kassa and his fellow tribal members locate and investigate the crashed ship near a massive abandoned industrial strip-mining operation. When one of their own is killed by a crew member of the downed ship, the tribe kills the attacker and quickly leaves the crash site. Kassa stays behind to explore the ship. "Reckoning" Luthen arrives on Ferrix and meets Cassian in an abandoned factory. Karn and Mosk also appear with a dozen security officers. They confront Maarva, who refuses to cooperate. Intercepting a transmission from Cassian to B2EMO, Karn pinpoints Cassian's position. Cassian wants to sell the Starpath Unit and leave Ferrix. However, Luthen tries to persuade him to join his rebel network, citing Cassian's repeated success at stealing from and sabotaging Imperial ships. When Karn's officers raid the factory, the two men escape to a speeder hangar, and subdue Karn. After learning of Timm's betrayal, Bix rushes to aid Cassian, only to be stopped by the officers. Timm is killed when he attempts to intervene. The pod the security officers arrived in is sabotaged by Brasso and destroyed. Luthen and Cassian escape the planet while Karn and Mosk request evacuation. In a flashback, Maarva and her husband, Clem, scavenge the crashed ship on Kenari and find Kassa. Maarva decides to take him with them, fearing his fate if he is discovered there by the Republic. "Aldhani" Luthen takes Cassian to the planet Aldhani, asking him to join a robbery mission there. Cassian is reluctant but eventually agrees. Luthen asks him to use a pseudonym among the rebels, and Cassian chooses 'Clem'. Vel, the rebel group's leader, introduces him to the rest of the group but keeps Luthen's involvement a secret. They explain to Cassian that they plan on stealing the payroll of an Imperial sector from a key Imperial supply hub, taking advantage of a rare natural phenomenon in Aldhani's sky to escape since their getaway vehicle is slow. Meanwhile on Coruscant, Luthen, posing as an antiques dealer, meets with Senator Mon Mothma, and they discuss challenges in keeping their opposition to the Empire hidden. Karn goes to live with his mother after being castigated and fired. Imperial Security Bureau (ISB) lieutenant Dedra Meero seeks access and authority over the Ferrix incident, but is opposed by a colleague and a senior officer. "The Axe Forgets" On Aldhani, 'Clem' hides his past from his fellow rebels and is met with distrust from most of them, particularly Skeen. Taramyn trains Cassian and the other rebels for the planned heist. While traveling to the Aldhani Imperial garrison, Cassian reveals that he is a mercenary. Vel decides to continue with the mission and hold off on dealing with 'Clem's' past until they have achieved their objectives. Imperial officer and double agent Lieutenant Gorn covertly aids the rebels. On Coruscant, Syril Karn discusses new career prospects with his mother. Mon Mothma establishes a new charitable foundation while managing increasingly tense relations with her husband and daughter. ISB supervisor Blevin seizes a hotel as the new ISB headquarters on Ferrix. Meanwhile, his rival Meero and her assistant Heert reach the conclusion that the rebels are conducting a series of coordinated heists of Imperial weapons and technology. Luthen anxiously waits for a transmission from Vel and her rebel team. "The Eye" Aided by Gorn, the rebels infiltrate the garrison by posing as an escort squad for Commandant Jayhold Beehaz, Gorn's superior. They take Beehaz's family as hostages and force him to give them access to the payroll vault. While loading the credits onto a freighter, they are discovered by Imperial forces. Taramyn and Gorn are killed in the ensuing firefight. Cinta is unable to make it onto the ship, so only Cassian, Skeen, Vel, and Nemik escape from Aldhani. During takeoff, Nemik is crushed by an unsecured load of credits, and suffers a severe injury. They land on the planet Frezno to treat Nemik's injuries. With Vel occupied looking after Nemik, Skeen proposes to Cassian that they flee and split the payroll between the two. Enraged and fearing for his life, Cassian kills Skeen. He tells Vel about what happened and informs her of his plans to take the amount he was promised as payment and leave. Vel gives Cassian Nemik's manifesto, in accordance with Nemik's dying wishes. Back on Coruscant, the ISB agents are gathered to formulate reprisals to the heist, while Luthen hears news of the theft and quietly celebrates. "Announcement" On Coruscant, Karn starts a new job at the Bureau of Standards. Colonel Wullf Yularen announces that the ISB has gained more surveillance and punitive authority, while Meero is challenged by Blevin for breaking protocol by accessing Imperial data without authorization. She persuades their superiors of her work's value and is granted oversight of Ferrix. Luthen's assistant Kleya instructs Vel to find and kill Cassian, as he knows Luthen's identity. Mon Mothma meets with Tay Kolma, an old friend and banker, and asks him to help her access family funds. Cassian returns to Ferrix to settle old debts and learns that people blame him for the Imperial Security crackdown. The presence of stormtroopers on Ferrix reminds Cassian of how his adoptive father, Clem, was murdered by Imperial clone troopers during a protest on Rix Road. Cassian attempts to get Maarva to leave Ferrix with him, but she decides to stay and oppose the increased Imperial presence. Cassian travels to the tropical tourist paradise of Niamos, adopting the name "Keef Girgo". Some time later, while walking towards a local store, he is unjustly arrested by a Shoretrooper and sentenced to six years of imprisonment. "Narkina 5" Cassian is brought to an island prison on Narkina 5, discovering that it is a hard labour camp with thousands of other prisoners. Vel and Cinta travel to Ferrix to search for him. When Maarva falls ill, Bix attempts to contact Luthen about Cassian's whereabouts, but Luthen, worried about being exposed to anyone monitoring communications, does not answer. He then leaves Coruscant to meet with Saw Gerrera. Luthen attempts to hire Gerrera's rebel cell to act as air support for a raid on an Imperial power station at Spellhaus organized by Anto Kreegyr, but is turned away. Dedra Meero questions Syril Karn about his experiences on Ferrix, but declines his offer to help with her investigation. She leads a unit to Ferrix herself, where she apprehends Bix. "Nobody's Listening!" Dedra Meero and Imperial scientist Dr. Gorst torture Bix for information and realize that Cassian may have been involved in the Aldhani heist. They fail to learn anything about Bix's caller, Luthen. The ISB capture a Rebel pilot from Kreegyr's group, who reveals that a power station on Spellhaus is set to be raided. Mon Mothma reunites with Vel, revealed to be her cousin, and encourages her to keep a low profile, maintaining the facade of a rich and apolitical young woman. Mon Mothma and Tay Kolma continue working to covertly gather funds for rebel activities. Meanwhile, an elderly member of Cassian's prison work crew named Ulaf is euthanized by a prison medic named Dr. Rhasiv when he suffers a massive stroke, days from his release date. Dr. Rhasiv confirms to Cassian and floor manager Kino Loy a disturbing rumor: a prisoner who had completed his sentence was sent to work on a different level instead of being released, forcing the prison to kill all the prisoners on that level in a coverup. Cassian and Kino realize that the prison will never let them go, convincing Kino to join Cassian's scheme to escape. "One Way Out" By breaking a water pipe and flooding his work floor, Cassian disables the floor's security system, allowing work crews there to overpower the few guards and escape. Kino uses the prison's intercom system to encourage other floors to escape and the rebellion sweeps through the entire prison. Despite his role in the escape, Kino reveals that he can't swim. Cassian swims with the other escapees and reaches land. Mon Mothma meets with Davo Sculdun, a shady businessman who offers to help finance her projects, but Mon refuses after Davo requests that Mon arrange a meeting between her daughter and his son, an initial step towards marriage in their Chandrilan culture. ISB supervisor Lonni Jung, secretly a rebel informant, meets with Luthen and updates him on ISB activities. The two men reflect on how they are both trapped in their roles. "Daughter of Ferrix" Maarva dies, prompting a funeral ceremony on Ferrix, which Dedra Meero encourages in the hopes that Andor will attend. Vel informs Kleya about Maarva's death and learns of Mon Mothma's reluctant plan to marry off her daughter to secure funding through Davo Sculdun. Mon's daughter Leida begins taking part in group gatherings focused on Chandrilan culture and traditions, much to the distress of Mon and Vel. Syril Karn also learns about the funeral from Linus Mosk. Saw Gerrera decides at the last moment to assist Kreegyr's attack on Spellhaus, but Luthen advises him against it, revealing that the ISB know about the impending assault. While returning to Coruscant, Luthen escapes from an Imperial patrol, destroying several TIE fighters and a tractor beam. With help from Keredians Dewi and Freedi, Cassian and fellow prisoner Ruescott Melshi are able to escape from Narkina 5 and travel to Niamos to recover Cassian's belongings. After Cassian discovers that Maarva has passed, Cassian and Melshi part ways, intending to publicly expose the Empire's unjust prison system. "Rix Road" Cassian returns to Ferrix for Maarva's funeral and learns of Bix's imprisonment. Dedra Meero and the local Imperial garrison prepare to use the funeral to capture Andor for questioning regarding Axis. Using the Imperial ambush as cover, Luthen plans, with Vel and Cinta's assistance, to kill Cassian (to keep him from possibly divulging any secrets). The ISB succeed in stopping Kreegyr's attack but leave no prisoners, angering Meero. Mothma's 13-year-old daughter Leida is introduced to Davo Sculdun's 14-year-old son. During the funeral, B2EMO displays a recording of Maarva, who rallies the populace to fight the Empire, creating a riot. During the confusion, Cassian rescues Bix, while Syril Karn saves Meero from being attacked. Meeting with B2EMO, Brasso, and several others in a shipyard, Cassian convinces them to take Bix somewhere safe away from Ferrix. Moved by the rebellion on Ferrix, Luthen returns to his ship where Cassian is waiting. Knowing of Luthen's intentions in Ferrix, Cassian offers him a choice: he can either kill Cassian or take him in, to which Luthen smiles. In a post-credits scene, droids assemble the machinery produced by the Narkina 5 prisoners on the firing dish of the Death Star.

Asajj Ventress Asajj Ventress () is a character from the Star Wars franchise. Originally intended to appear as an antagonist in the 2002 film Star Wars: Episode II – Attack of the Clones, she was first introduced in the 2003 micro-series Star Wars: Clone Wars (voiced by Grey DeLisle), and is part of the Star Wars Legends continuity. A different version of Ventress was featured in the 2008 animated film The Clone Wars and the subsequent television series of the same name, in which she is voiced by Nika Futterman. The character also appears in tie-in Star Wars media such as books, comics, and video games, and has become a favorite among fans. In the Star Wars universe, Ventress is a former member of the Nightsisters, a mysterious matriarchal cult of witches from the red planet Dathomir, who was sold into slavery as a child, and was subsequently taken in as a Jedi Padawan by the Jedi Master who saved her. Following her master's death in battle, Ventress falls to the dark side of the Force and becomes Count Dooku's informal Sith apprentice and personal assassin. As a Sith assassin, she wields two lightsabers with curved handles that can attach together and form a double bladed weapon with a curve in the middle. Originally a villain opposing the Jedi and the Galactic Republic, she is eventually betrayed by Dooku and, after a failed attempt to exact revenge on him, tries to distance herself from her old life by turning to bounty hunting. Despite her efforts, however, Ventress finds herself drawn back into the Clone Wars when she helps her former Jedi enemies in various situations, slowly redeeming herself. In the 2015 novel Star Wars: Dark Disciple, adapted from an eight-episode arc intended for the seventh season of The Clone Wars, Ventress works with the Jedi Quinlan Vos in a secret mission to assassinate Dooku, and seemingly sacrifices her life to save Vos from him. Ventress later appears in Star Wars: The Bad Batch with the circumstances of her survival unclear.

Canon Astrography of Star Wars The Star Wars galaxy contains several broad sub-regions. Their exact definitions fluctuated somewhat during the Legends continuity, but were later formally updated by the new canon continuity when Disney purchased Lucasfilm. The new canon map is broadly similar to the later versions of the Legends galactic map. As a general rule, most of the galaxy's wealth, power, and population are concentrated near the middle of the galactic circle – the "Core Worlds". The first major interstellar powers in the core are stated to have risen many millennia ago, gradually coalescing into the early Galactic Republic, with its capital at Coruscant. Waves of colonization (and conquest) by the Republic gradually spread outward from the Core, into the sparser systems at the galaxy's edge, such as Tatooine. Worlds of the Outer Rim are rich in raw resources but lack the population, infrastructure, or political power of the Core. Major galactic sub-regions are further divided into quadrants, sectors, etc., down to individual star systems and planets. The galaxy has at least two companion-satellite dwarf galaxies, one of which is known as the Rishi Maze, but they are very lightly settled or explored. The canon map depicts a top-down view of the galactic disk, with "north" as the side of the galactic center that Coruscant is located on. As the capital planet of the Republic and later the Empire, Coruscant is used as the reference point for galactic astronomy, set at XYZ coordinates 0-0-0. Standardized galactic time measurements are also based on Coruscant's local solar day and year. According to the updated Visual Dictionary series made by Pablo Hidalgo for the Sequel Trilogy, these are the general regions of the galaxy spreading outward from the Core: Deep Core – the innermost brightly lit region of space, with a supermassive black hole at the center which binds the galaxy together. Densely-packed with stars, nebulae, and other anomalies, it is therefore thinly settled due to the resulting high radiation levels and lack of stable hyperspace routes. Core Worlds – powerful and wealthy planets with millennia-long histories, many of them founding members of the Galactic Republic. On-screen examples include Coruscant, Corellia, Alderaan, and Hosnian Prime. The Colonies – the first colonies founded by the nascent Galactic Republic in ancient times. The name is somewhat anachronistic, as they have grown nearly as powerful as the "Core Worlds" themselves, though their histories aren't quite as long or prestigious (i.e. comparable to how the United States or Canada could be called "the colonies" of Great Britain). Mentioned by name in The Rise of Skywalker. Inner Rim – the original edge of the Galactic Republic, where expansion waves stopped for many generations. Expansion Region – nestled between the "Inner Rim" and the "Mid Rim", anachronistically named due to a new colonization wave starting again. Mid-Rim – Generally industrialized though not very important planets, but more developed than the true "frontier" in the Outer Rim. On-screen examples include Naboo and Kashyyyk. Outer Rim – a vast region including all of the last major star systems up to the galaxy's edge. As the last region that the Republic expanded into, it is relatively the least developed, a frontier more often than not exploited by the central galactic government for its resources. On-screen examples include Tatooine, Yavin, Hoth, Bespin, Endor, Geonosis, Utapau, Mustafar, and Kessel. Wild Space – star systems located beyond the Outer Rim – because a galaxy's "edge" is not a fixed border line, but a concentration of stars tapering off in frequency. Unlike the Outer Rim, these sparse few systems around the galaxy's circumference were never formally charted. More broadly, Attack of the Clones established that the Star Wars galaxy actually possesses at least three small satellite galaxies, never colonized and considered largely inhospitable. The secret cloner-world Kamino, however, is located in one of these minor galactic clusters beyond the Outer Rim. Unknown Regions – the new Canon map establishes that, due to the stability of hyperspace lanes, inhabited planets are weighted toward the "eastern" quadrant of the galactic plane with the "western" one being mostly unexplored. These Unknown Regions are home to the first Jedi temple on Ahch-To and the Chiss Ascendancy, into which Grand Admiral Thrawn was born. The remnants of the Empire retreated here after their defeat at Endor, reforming into the First Order – as well as, secret even to the First Order, Darth Sidious' Sith forces reconstituting on Exegol. Western Reaches – the sectors once controlled by the Republic that border the Unknown Regions of the galactic "west". Essentially similar to the Outer Rim in terms of their history and economic development, the only difference being that instead of being located at the galaxy's physical edge, they are located at the edge of galactic exploration in the "western" side of the Republic. In The Force Awakens, it is stated in dialogue that Jakku is in the Western Reaches.Apart from these broad regions radiating out from the galactic core, there are also several major galactic sub-regions of note: Mandalorian space – technically located in the Outer Rim, but relatively close to the border with the Mid-Rim, near Kashyyyk, in the galactic "northeast". The planet Mandalore had its own regional space empire in ancient times, led by their formidable warrior culture. The Mandalorians were the most difficult enemies the Jedi ever faced short of the Sith: they were not Force-wielders, but were a culture of regular humans who had honed themselves to possess the pinnacle of combat training, equipment, and battle tactics. During a series of long wars with the Republic, however, many centuries before the Clone Wars, the Jedi were eventually able to fight them into submission - though with heavy losses. In the Star Wars: Clone Wars animated series, both the Republic and the Separatists compete for support from rival Mandalorian factions, and in the later Star Wars: Rebels animated series, Mandalorians again divide into a proxy war between pro-Imperial and pro-Rebel forces. According to The Mandalorian TV series, this eventually resulted in the devastation of Mandalorian space by the Empire, with surviving enclaves scattering across the Outer Rim. Hutt Space – a fairly large swath of space along the "eastern" quadrant of the galactic plane, loosely straddling the border between the Mid-Rim and Outer-Rim. The Hutts are a kleptocratic Mafia state, derided as "gangsters" composed of several rival clans. The Hutts' resources and power are formidable enough that both the Republic and the Empire never bothered to conquer them, while the Hutts were too divided by their own internal politics to seriously challenge the Republic (unlike the Mandalorians).This official galactic astrography was later re-confirmed for the first time in on-screen, live-action dialogue in The Mandalorian. In the second season's fourth episode, "The Siege", a classroom is briefly shown on a planet in the Outer Rim, in which a lesson on galactic astrography is being taught by a protocol droid. The teacher not only lists off each of these major regions from the Visual Dictionary, but lists them in the exact same order, from the Outer Rim to the Core: "Who can name one of the five major trade routes in the galaxy? The Hydian Way [runs] from the Outer Rim to as far away as the Core Worlds. However, there are several other regions within our galaxy. They are the Mid Rim, the Expansion Region, the Inner Rim, the Colonies, the Core, and the Deep Core."[2]

Atollon Desert planet, site of Phoenix Squadron Rebel base. Home of the spider-like hexapods known as the Krykna, and the powerful force-wielder Bendu. The Battle of Atollon was allowed by Grand Admiral Thrawn himself, and destroyed most of the base, forcing the Phoenix Squadron to leave.

Bespin A gas planet with a thin layer of habitable atmosphere where Cloud City was located. The planet's gas layers were a source of rare tibanna gas which was harvested and refined at mining complexes like Cloud City.

Bib Fortuna Bib Fortuna is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. The Twi'lek majordomo and chief aide of the crime lord Jabba the Hutt, Bib is Jabba's closest associate, succeeding him as daimyo after his death before ultimately being killed himself by Boba Fett. Fortuna first appeared in Return of the Jedi (1983), the final entry in the original Star Wars trilogy. He also appeared briefly in the prequel trilogy film The Phantom Menace (1999) and in the second season of Disney+ series The Mandalorian (2020) and The Bad Batch (2021). The character has also appeared in other Star Wars media, including novels, comic books, video games, and radio dramas. Fortuna was created by Return of the Jedi co-writers Lawrence Kasdan and George Lucas, and was designed by Phil Tippett based upon early sketches by concept artists Nilo Rodis-Jamero and Ralph McQuarrie. The character was portrayed by Michael Carter in Return of the Jedi, who was cast based upon his stage acting experience; the actor did not know it was a Star Wars film until after he accepted the role. Erik Bauersfeld provided the voice of Fortuna in Return of the Jedi, and sound editor Matthew Wood portrayed the character in The Phantom Menace and The Mandalorian. Although few details about him were revealed in his film appearances, other Star Wars works have established Fortuna's back story, including his past as a slave trader who was sentenced to death on his home planet of Ryloth. Although he outwardly appears loyal and obedient to Jabba, Fortuna secretly despises his master and actively plots to assassinate him and take over his criminal operation. Fortuna survives the events of Return of the Jedi in the Star Wars Legends canon, which encompasses all licensed Star Wars stories outside of the films prior to The Walt Disney Company acquiring the franchise in 2012. The new set of official canon created after that acquisition also establishes that Fortuna was not killed during the climactic battle in Return of the Jedi, and he assumed Jabba's place as crime lord until being killed and succeeded by Boba Fett five years later. It took about eight-and-a-half hours to apply the character's makeup for the first time in Return of the Jedi, which included extensive casts and molds, a large rubber headpiece, day glow orange contact lenses, sharpened false teeth, and claw-like finger extensions. Fortuna has been described as a fan-favorite and one of the most memorable characters from Star Wars, and has been included on several lists of the best characters in the franchise. Several toys and merchandise works have been created for the character, and an original action figure prototype sold for £36,000 in a 2019 auction.

Black Krrsantan Black Krrsantan, or simply Krrsantan, sometimes Black K, BK or Santy, is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. Created by writer Kieron Gillen, artist Salvador Larroca, and editors Jordan D. White and Heather Antos, he first appeared in Marvel Comics' 2015 Darth Vader comic book series as a major antagonist, before returning as a supporting character in its 2016 spin-off comic book series, Star Wars: Doctor Aphra, as well as 2015's ongoing Star Wars comic book series. He made his first live-action appearance in the Disney+ miniseries The Book of Boba Fett (2022), mainly portrayed by Carey Jones. Black Krrsantan is a fierce Wookiee bounty hunter and former gladiator. He has worked for notorious individuals in the galaxy such as Jabba the Hutt, Darth Vader and Doctor Aphra. Later, he is hired as a bodyguard by the Hutt Twins to kill Boba Fett, his old partner, but is eventually employed by Fett. The character has been widely praised by fans and critics alike.

Bo-Katan Kryze Bo-Katan Kryze (pronounced ) is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. She was introduced in the animated television series Star Wars: The Clone Wars, in which she was voiced by Katee Sackhoff. Sackhoff subsequently reprised her role in the sequel series Star Wars Rebels, and made her live-action debut as the character in the second season of the Disney+ series The Mandalorian. In The Clone Wars, Bo-Katan is a member of the Death Watch, a terrorist faction of Mandalorians who wish to restore the ancient warrior ways of their planet, Mandalore. She is also the sister of Duchess Satine Kryze, the pacifist ruler of Mandalore, from whom she is estranged due to differences in their politics. She later allies herself with former Jedi Ahsoka Tano and the Galactic Republic in liberating Mandalore from Darth Maul. In Rebels, Bo-Katan is declared the new ruler of Mandalore. In The Mandalorian, after the Great Purge of Mandalore, she seeks to recover the Darksaber from Moff Gideon and retake her homeworld.

Boba Fett Boba Fett ( BO(H)B-ə FET) is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. First appearing in the Star Wars Holiday Special (1978), where he was voiced by Don Francks, he is an armored bounty hunter featured in both the original and prequel film trilogies. In the original trilogy, the character is a supporting antagonist and was mainly portrayed by Jeremy Bulloch and voiced by Jason Wingreen. Notable for his taciturn demeanor and for never removing his helmet, Fett appears in both The Empire Strikes Back (1980), employed by the Galactic Empire, and Return of the Jedi (1983), serving the crime lord Jabba the Hutt. While seemingly killed in Return of the Jedi after falling into a sarlacc, he has since appeared in Star Wars media set after the film, confirming his survival within the new canon, portrayed by Temuera Morrison. Daniel Logan plays a preteen Boba in the prequel film Attack of the Clones (2002), which reveals the character's origins as the genetic clone and adoptive son of Jango Fett, also a famous bounty hunter. Morrison appeared first in Star Wars media playing Jango. The animated series The Bad Batch further reveals Boba to have been born Alpha, and to have a biological twin sister, Omega. The series also reveals that he has another sister named Emerie Karr. The character also appears in many forms of Star Wars media outside of the films, such as books, comics, television series, and video games, many of which depict him as an antihero rather than a villain, and explore his background, motivations, and morality. Daniel Logan reprised his role as the younger version of Fett in the animated series Star Wars: The Clone Wars, while Temuera Morrison, who also portrayed Jango in Attack of the Clones, has portrayed an adult Boba in most of his Star Wars appearances since that film, most prominently in the live-action Disney+ series The Mandalorian and its spin-off series The Book of Boba Fett, in which he assumes control over Tatooine with his partner Fennec Shand as the planet's new daimyo. During the development of The Empire Strikes Back, Fett was originally conceived as a member of a group of white-armored Imperial "supercommandos" before the idea was scrapped in favor of a solitary bounty hunter. This concept later evolved into the Mandalorians, a cultural group with strong warrior traditions, who sport armor and helmets similar to Fett's. In several Star Wars works, Fett himself is portrayed as a Mandalorian or at least connected to the Mandalorian culture through his armor, with his father Jango confirmed to have been a Mandalorian foundling and war veteran in The Mandalorian. The character of Boba Fett quickly became a fan favorite despite his limited presence in the original Star Wars trilogy and is now a widely recognized figure in popular culture. His popularity within the Star Wars fanbase has earned him a cult following.

Rogue One Rogue One (or Rogue One: A Star Wars Story) is a 2016 American epic space opera film directed by Gareth Edwards. The screenplay by Chris Weitz and Tony Gilroy is based on a story by John Knoll and Gary Whitta. The movie was produced by Lucasfilm and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures. It is the first installment of the Star Wars anthology series, and an immediate prequel to Star Wars (1977). The main cast consists of Felicity Jones, Diego Luna, Ben Mendelsohn, Donnie Yen, Mads Mikkelsen, Alan Tudyk, Riz Ahmed, Jiang Wen, and Forest Whitaker. Set a week before the events of Star Wars, the plot follows a group of rebels who band together to steal plans of the Death Star, the ultimate weapon of the Galactic Empire. It details the Rebel Alliance's first effective victory against the Empire, first referenced in Star Wars' opening crawl. Based on an idea first pitched by Knoll ten years before it entered development, the film was made to be different in tone and style from the traditional Star Wars films, omitting the customary opening crawl and transitional screen wipes. Principal photography on the film began at Pinewood Studios, Buckinghamshire, in early August 2015 and wrapped in February 2016. The film then went through extensive reshoots in mid-2016. The film's score was composed by Michael Giacchino, rather than John Williams, who composed the score of all prior Skywalker Saga films up to that point. With an estimated production budget of $200-265 million, it is one of the most expensive films ever made. Rogue One premiered in Los Angeles on December 10, 2016, and was theatrically released in the United States on December 16. The film received positive reviews from critics, with praise for its acting, story, visuals, musical score, cinematography, and the darker and more serious tone compared to previous Star Wars films, but criticism for its pacing, characters, and digital recreations of Peter Cushing and Carrie Fisher. It grossed over $1 billion worldwide, making it the 20th-highest-grossing film of all time and the second-highest-grossing film of 2016 during its theatrical run. It received two Academy Award nominations for Best Sound Mixing and Best Visual Effects. A prequel television series, titled Andor, premiered on the streaming service Disney+ on September 21, 2022, with Luna reprising his role as the title character.

Bracca An inhospitable junkyard planet in the Mid Rim considered strategically important in the Clone Wars. Becomes useful to the Scrapper Guild whose members salvage decommissioned ships for the Empire.

Cad Bane Cad Bane is a character in the Star Wars franchise. Created by George Lucas, Dave Filoni and Henry Gilroy, he first appeared in the 2008 animated series Star Wars: The Clone Wars (voiced by Corey Burton). Burton would return to voice Bane in the 2021 animated series Star Wars: The Bad Batch and live-action series The Book of Boba Fett (in which stuntman Dorian Kingi physically portrayed the character) on Disney+. Cad Bane is depicted as a ruthless bounty hunter and mercenary from the planet Duro who is known for his trademark wide-brimmed hat. His fast draw, cunning wits and unscrupulous willingness to take any job for the right price earn him a reputation as one of the best bounty hunters in the galaxy. Often employed by other antagonists, Bane comes into conflict with the Jedi of the Galactic Republic numerous times during the Clone Wars. Through the reign of the Galactic Empire to the era of the New Republic, Bane retains his notoriety and continues to provide his services to the highest bidder, causing him to clash with Clone Force 99, Fennec Shand, Cobb Vanth, and even his former apprentice, Boba Fett. The character has become a fan favorite villain since his introduction and is considered one of the most popular bounty hunters in the franchise alongside the likes of Boba and Jango Fett. In addition to the television series, Cad Bane has also been featured in various Star Wars comic books and video games.

Cal Kestis Cal Kestis is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. He is the playable protagonist of the Star Wars Jedi game series which includes the 2019 video game Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order and its 2023 sequel, Star Wars Jedi: Survivor, developed by Respawn Entertainment. The character has also appeared in other media of the franchise, such as the novel Star Wars Jedi: Battle Scars by Sam Maggs, which bridges the gap between the two Star Wars Jedi games. Cal is played by American actor and model Cameron Monaghan through performance capture. Within the franchise, Cal is a former Jedi Padawan and survivor of the Great Jedi Purge who, during the early reign of the Galactic Empire, lives in seclusion on the planet Bracca until an incident forces him to reveal his Force powers. Pursued throughout the galaxy by the Inquisitors, the Empire's Jedi hunters, Cal embarks on a quest to try and rebuild the Jedi Order as he is joined by a number of unlikely allies, who help him challenge the Empire's rule and become a second family to him. During his journey, Cal learns to re-embrace his Jedi role and reconcile with his troubled past, as he goes on to become a powerful Jedi Knight and a prominent figure in the fight against the Empire. Cal's character has received a generally positive reception from critics and fans, who praised his growth and relationships with other characters, although he did face some initial criticism over his "boring" appearance.

Captain Phasma Captain Phasma is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise, portrayed by English actress Gwendoline Christie. Introduced in Star Wars: The Force Awakens (2015), the first film in the Star Wars sequel trilogy, Phasma is the commander of the First Order's force of stormtroopers. Christie returned to the role in the next of the trilogy's films, Star Wars: The Last Jedi (2017), and in the animated television series Star Wars Resistance (2018) and several video games. The character also made an additional appearance in Before the Awakening, an anthology book set before the events of The Force Awakens. J. J. Abrams created Phasma from an armor design originally developed for Kylo Ren and named her after the 1979 horror film Phantasm. The character was originally conceived as male. Phasma appeared prominently in promotion and marketing for The Force Awakens, but the character's ultimately minor role in the film was the subject of criticism, a complaint repeated for her appearance in The Last Jedi. Nonetheless, merchandise featuring the character found success, and her figure was the best-selling of all The Force Awakens action figures on Amazon.co.uk.

Captain Rex Captain Rex (designation number CT-7567) is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise created by George Lucas. He was introduced as a main character in the animated The Clone Wars 2008 film and the related television series of the same name. Rex is a clone trooper of the Grand Army of the Republic, cloned from the Mandalorian bounty hunter Jango Fett, and serves the Galactic Republic under the command of Jedi General Anakin Skywalker and Jedi Commander Ahsoka Tano. Since his introduction in The Clone Wars, he has also appeared in the 2014 Star Wars Rebels television series, the 2021 Star Wars: The Bad Batch television series, the 2022 Tales of the Jedi television series and various spin-off media. Like all clone troopers in The Clone Wars, Rebels, The Bad Batch and Tales of the Jedi, Rex is voiced by Dee Bradley Baker. In Ahsoka, Rex made his live-action debut in the episode "Part Five: Shadow Warrior", voiced by Temuera Morrison in sequences set during the Clone Wars. He is physically distinguished from other clone troopers by his close shaved blond hair, and he is identified by blue markings on his armor and by stylized hawk eyes painted on his helmet. Rex was also distinguished by his use of twin blaster pistols in combat. He is described as a reliable and exemplary soldier, considered by Anakin to be his "first-in-command". Rex is characterized as believing it is his duty to not only carry out orders but also to protect the men under his command; however, his belief in the Republic wavers over the course of the series. Initial development for The Clone Wars film chose Alpha-17, featured in Star Wars: Republic, to be the primary clone trooper character. However, Lucas felt this created too much alliteration with the existing principal cast, and a new character was created instead. Rex was developed as the central personality to which the troopers around him aspired and featured in story arcs exploring his character development. Rex became a fan favorite, consistently placing in fan polls and Star Wars character ranking lists.

Cara Dune Cara Dune is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise, appearing in the first two seasons of the Disney+ television series The Mandalorian. Portrayed by actress and former mixed martial artist Gina Carano, the character is a former Rebel shock trooper who became a mercenary after the Galactic Civil War, and is later employed as a marshal of the New Republic. A highly trained and battle-hardened special forces warrior, Cara is skilled in the use of weaponry, hand-to-hand combat, and battle tactics, and has an intense hatred of the Galactic Empire for its destruction of her homeworld, Alderaan. Carano described Cara as a loner who is having trouble readjusting to society following her career as a soldier. The character was positively received by reviewers and fans and has been described as a feminist role model, unique among the Star Wars franchise's female characters due to her physicality and combat skills. In February 2021, following a series of controversial posts by Carano on social media, Lucasfilm announced that she would not return as Cara and that the character would not be recast.

Cassian Andor Cassian Jeron Andor, born Kassa, is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise, primarily portrayed by actor Diego Luna. Introduced in the feature film Rogue One (2016) as a co-lead, he is the protagonist of the ongoing prequel television series Andor (2022–present). He begins his life as an orphan on the abandoned mining planet Kenari. After being adopted and taken from his home by scavengers, he grows up on the industrial planet Ferrix. As a young man, he smuggles stolen Imperial ship components before joining the Rebel Alliance. Rogue One depicts Andor as a pilot and intelligence officer for the Rebel Alliance who leads a rebel unit called Rogue One in stealing plans for the Death Star, setting the events of the original Star Wars film in motion. The character has received a mixed response from critics, with praise for Luna's performance but some criticism for the quality of the narrative guiding the character. As the first Mexican lead actor and one of the first Latino leads in a Star Wars film, his introduction in Rogue One was considered to be a milestone for Latino representation.

List of Star Wars characters This incomplete list of characters from the Star Wars franchise contains only those which are considered part of the official Star Wars canon, as of the changes made by Lucasfilm in April 2014. Following its acquisition by The Walt Disney Company in 2012, Lucasfilm rebranded most of the novels, comics, video games and other works produced since the originating 1977 film Star Wars as Star Wars Legends and declared them non-canon to the rest of the franchise. As such, the list contains only information from the Skywalker Saga films, the 2008 animated TV series Star Wars: The Clone Wars, and other films, shows, or video games published or produced after April 2014. The list includes humans and various alien species. No droid characters are included; for those, see the list of Star Wars droid characters. Some of the characters featured in this list have additional or alternate plotlines in the non-canonical Legends continuity. To see those or characters who do not exist at all in the current Star Wars canon, see the list of Star Wars Legends characters and list of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic characters. A Gial Ackbar Stass Allie Stass Allie is a Tholothian Jedi Master and the cousin of Adi Gallia. Allie is one of the many victims of Order 66. She was initially planned to die with Kit Fisto. The character has been portrayed by Lily Nyamwasa in Episode III. Almec Almec is a Mandalorian politician who serves as Prime Minister of Mandalore during the Clone Wars. A prominent supporter of Satine Kryze and her New Mandalorian government, he is imprisoned for his involvement in an illegal smuggling ring but is later freed and reinstated as a puppet leader after Darth Maul takes over the New Mandalorian capital city of Sundari. When Maul is later captured by Darth Sidious, Almec sends Mandalorian super commandos Gar Saxon and Rook Kast to rescue him. During the Siege of Mandalore, he is captured by Bo-Katan Kryze's force and is killed by Saxon when he attempts to relay information to Ahsoka, Rex, and Bo-Katan. The character has been voiced by Julian Holloway in The Clone Wars. Mas Amedda Mas Amedda is the Chagrian Vice Chair of the Galactic Senate. He is Grand Vizier and head of the Imperial Ruling Council, installed by Gallius Rax as the puppet leader of the Empire following Palpatine's death. Amedda is also one of the few people to know about Palpatine's secret persona as Darth Sidious. Amedda formally surrenders the Empire to the New Republic. The character has been portrayed by Jerome Blake and David Bowers in Episodes I-III, and voiced by Stephen Stanton in The Clone Wars and The Bad Batch. His story has also been expanded in Aftermath: Life Debt and Aftermath: Empire's End. Padmé Amidala Padme Amidala is the Queen of Naboo in Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace and later becomes the Senator of Naboo sometime between Episodes 1-2 and she continues to serve from Attack of the Clones, throughout the Clone Wars, and into Revenge of the Sith. Later on, she develops a relationship with Jedi Padawan Anakin Skywalker and secretly marries him on Naboo. Near the end of the war, she tells Anakin that she is pregnant, but Anakin starts having nightmares about her dying in childbirth. He turns his back on the Jedi and joins Darth Sidious to try to save her. Later, she travels to the volcanic system of Mustafar to try to bring him back to the light but he won't listen, and after Anakin sees Obi-wan Kenobi, he Force-chokes her and she falls unconscious. After Obi-wan defeats Anakin and takes her the medical facility on Poliss Massa, she gives birth to Luke and Leia but soon after dies of a broken heart. Cassian Andor Maarva Andor Maarva Andor is a human female who lived during the final decades of the Galactic Republic and into the era of the Galactic Empire. Alongside her husband, Clem, Maarva became the adoptive mother of Cassian Andor, whom they rescued while smuggling on the planet Kenari. The character has been portrayed by Fiona Shaw in Andor. The Armorer Raymus Antilles Raymus Antilles is captain of the CR90 corvette Tantive IV, where he is strangled to death by Darth Vader. Antilles was also the last master of C-3PO and R2-D2 before they fall under the ownership of Luke Skywalker. In the final days of the Republic, Antilles served as captain of the CR70 corvette Tantive III. The character has been portrayed by Peter Geddis in Episode IV, by Rohan Nichol in Episode III, and by Tim Beckmann in Rogue One. Wedge Antilles Chelli Lona Aphra Ryder Azadi Ryder Azadi is the former Governor of Lothal and a family friend to Ephraim and Mira Bridger. He secretly assisted them in their campaign against the Galactic Empire which led to their arrest. Ryder escaped prison, but his friends did not. He later met Ezra and Kanan on Lothal. After helping in a mission that also involved Princess Leia, Ryder decided to form a new Rebel cell on Lothal. He later pretends to betray the Rebels in order to lure Governor Pryce into a trap. During the final part of the battle, Ryder tries to get Pryce to come along quietly when the Imperial base begins to take off and explode to no avail, but Pryce chooses to die, staying loyal to the Empire until the end. After the liberation of Lothal, Ryder assisted in its reconstruction and assumed the governorship. The character has been voiced by Clancy Brown in Rebels, and Brown reprised his role in Ahsoka. Azmorigan Azmorigan is a Jablogian crime lord and business partner of Vizago's. He was first tricked by Lando Calrissian into giving the entrepreneur a mining-purposed puffer pig and trading it for Hera, who then outsmarted Azmorigan and escaped from his ship, the Merchant One, to Calrissian and the Ghost crew. Azmorigan cornered them at Vizago's mining estate, intending to reclaim the puffer pig and Hera along the Ghost and its crew but was defeated there and is forced to flee. In The Wynkahthu Job, having formed an alliance with Hondo, with the two of them attacking an Imperial cargo ship only to have it become caught in the storms of a nearby planet, forcing them to call upon the Ghost crew for help. The salvage operation gets the rebels several proton bombs and an encounter with Imperial Sentry Droids, while Hondo only succeeds in unintentionally recovering one of his Ugnaughts. The character has been voiced by James Hong in Rebels. B Ponda Baba Ponda Baba is an Aqualish mercenary who attacks Luke Skywalker in the Mos Eisley cantina, and then gets his arm cut off by Obi-Wan Kenobi's lightsaber. He is an associate of Dr. Cornelius Evazan, who also antagonizes Luke Skywalker in the cantina. When the original Kenner action figure for Baba was released, the then-unnamed alien was called simply "Walrus Man". In Episode IV the character was portrayed by Tommy Ilsley. In Rogue One, he is seen with Dr. Evazan on the streets of Jedha. Cad Bane Darth Bane Darth Bane was ancient Sith Lord who was responsible for creating the Rule of Two: A master and an apprentice. In the Clone Wars season 6 Lost Episodes, Grand Master Yoda travels to the ancient Sith system known as Moraband and he encounters an illusion of Darth Bane. Tobias Beckett Val Beckett Val Beckett is the wife and partner-in-crime of Tobias Beckett. She is killed during a failed Coaxium heist for the Crimson Dawn. The character has been portrayed by Thandiwe Newton in Solo. The Bendu The Bendu is an ancient Force-wielder whose philosophy predates the Jedi Order; encountered by the rebels on the planet Atollon, where he describes himself as being "the middle" between the ashla, light side of the Force, and the bogan, dark side of the Force. The character has been voiced by Tom Baker in Rebels. Kelleran Beq Kelleran Beq is a Jedi Master who rescued Grogu from Order 66 with the help of the Royal Naboo Security Forces. The character has been portrayed by Ahmed Best in The Mandalorian, reprising his role from the 2020 web-based children's game show Star Wars: Jedi Temple Challenge. Sio Bibble Sio Bibble is the Governor of Naboo. The character has been portrayed by Oliver Ford Davies in Episodes I-III. Depa Billaba Depa Billaba is a Jedi Master on the Jedi High Council who falls into a six-month coma after an encounter with General Grievous on Haruun Kal. While recovering, she forms a bond with Padawan Caleb Dume (who will later become known as Kanan Jarrus), whom she takes on as her apprentice. She sacrifices herself during Order 66 to save her Padawan. The character has been portrayed by Dipika O'Neill Joti in Episodes I-II, and voiced by Archie Panjabi in The Bad Batch. Jar Jar Binks Jar Jar Binks is a Gungan from the Naboo system. At first Jar Jar was banished from Gungan City for being clumsy but then after meeting Jedi Master Qui-gon Ginn and his apprentice Obi-wan Kenobi, he took them to Gungan City. As soon as step foot in the city, he was taken into custody by General Tarpals and escorted along with Jedi to Boss Nass leader of the Gungans at the time. Once the Jedi convinced Boss Nass to let Jar Jar come with them, he helped them rescue the Queen. Later on Tattooine, he almost got in trouble with Sebulba, a dangerous Dug podracer but was saved by young Anakin Skywalker. Many years later, Jar Jar became the Representative of Naboo but he is responsible for giving Chancellor Palpatine emergency powers during the Clone Wars, which ultimately facilitated the rise of the Empire. Zorii Bliss Zorri Bliss is a leader of a group of spice-smugglers from the planet Kijimi and a past love interest of Resistance pilot Poe Dameron. She later was among the many who assisted the Resistance in the air battle against the Sith Eternal forces over Exegol. The character has been portrayed by Keri Russell in Episode IX. Lux Bonteri Lux Bonteri is son of Separatist senator Mina Bonteri, and freedom fighter during the Clone Wars; love interest of Ahsoka Tano. After his mother's assassination, he becomes the representative of his homeworld Onderon in the Galactic Senate. The character has been voiced by Jason Spisak in The Clone Wars. Bossk Bossk is a notorious Trandoshan bounty hunter who is one of the six summoned by Darth Vader to track down the Millennium Falcon. He is also seen in Jabba's Palace. Bossk is the son of bounty hunter Cradossk and is known for his hatred and hunting of Wookiees, with a particular vendetta against the Wookiee Chewbacca. During the Clone Wars, he mentors and serves as a bodyguard to a young Boba Fett, eventually joining his syndicate of bounty hunters. The character has been portrayed by Alan Harris in Episodes V-VI, and voiced by Dee Bradley Baker in The Clone Wars. In the fourth draft of The Empire Strikes Back, Bossk was written as a slimy, tentacled monster with two huge bloodshot eyes in a soft baggy face. Concept art of Bossk was drawn by artist Ralph McQuarrie in either late 1978 or early 1979. The head, feet, and arms of the character were recycled from the Mos Eisley cantina scene in A New Hope and sculpted by make-up artist Stuart Freeborn. The outfit used for the character was a High-Altitude Windak Pressure Suit used by the Royal Air Force in the 1960s and was recycled from the 1966 Doctor Who serial The Tenth Planet. An insignia was applied to the shoulder of the costume to give the appearance that Bossk was a part of an "organized unit." His weapon was made from a Webley-Schermuly Riot gun with various add-ons. Bossk is mentioned in Solo: A Star Wars Story, when Val complains to her husband Tobias Beckett about hiring Han Solo and Chewbacca instead of experienced mercenaries such as Bossk. In earlier drafts, Bossk was written in as a member of the Enfys Nest's Cloud Riders who abandons her at the end of movie. Screenwriter Jonathan Kasdan "fought long and hard" to include this in Solo but was overruled. Ezra Bridger Ezra Bridger is human male Jedi Knight from the planet of Lothal. He was born on Empire day(when the Republic became the Empire.)As a young boy, his parents spoke out against the Empire and as a result they were taken away from him and executed by the Empire. Now on his own, Ezra became a local thief surviving on his own. Then one day everything changed. His day started out the same, then he met Rebel fighter Kanan Jarrus who was escaping from some Imperial officers. Ezra caught up to him and eventually stole Kanan's lightsaber. Later on, Ezra joined the rest of the Ghost crew and became Kanan's apprentice. After many tests and trials, Ezra became a strong Jedi and he made a lightsaber pistol after retrieving his kyber crystal. However, that lightsaber would be destroyed by Darth Vader. A few more years went by and Ezra's power was growing every day. He made a new green lightsaber but would start behaving strangely due to the effects of a Sith Holocron he recovered and he started to seek out the old Sith Warrior Darth Maul, but thanks to his master, he was able to stay on the Light Side. Later on, Ezra lost Kanan when he sacrificed himself for Ezra, Sabine and Hera at an Fuel Foundry and he fell into a deep depression. Soon after knowing Kanan will always be with him, Ezra led the Liberation of Lothal and freed his people from the Empire but at a cost. He along with Grand Admiral Thrawn went deep into space going missing. It wouldn't be after the fall of the Empire and the Rise of the New Republic when Ezra was finally found by Ahsoka Tano and Sabine Wren and was able to make it back home. C Bix Caleen Bix Caleen is a mechanic and black market dealer who is Andor's ally. The character has been portrayed by Adria Arjona in Andor. Lando Calrissian Chewbacca Cid Scaleback Cid Scaleback (full first name Ciddarin) is a former Jedi informant who provides the Bad Batch with mercenary missions in the aftermath of the Clone Wars. She later betrays the Bad Batch after they return from Eriadu, handing Omega over to Royce Hemlock. The character has been voiced by Rhea Perlman in The Bad Batch. The Client Rush Clovis Rush Clovis is a Separatist Senator who represents the planet Scipio in the Galactic Senate, as well as a former suitor of Padmé Amidala though it is made clear he never really knew her. When the Clone Wars broke out, he became a delegate of the InterGalactic Banking Clan. During the Battle of Scipio, he sacrifices himself to save Padmé. The character has been voiced by Robin Atkin Downes in The Clone Wars. Commander CC-2224 "Cody" CC-2224, or "Cody", is a clone Commander of the 212th Attack Battalion, serving under Obi-Wan Kenobi during the Clone Wars. Following the Battle of Utapau, he unwillingly betrays and attempts to kill Kenobi when Order 66 is issued. The character has been portrayed by Temuera Morrison in Episode III, and voiced by Dee Bradley Baker in The Clone Wars and The Bad Batch. Kaydel Ko Connix Kaydel Ko Connix is a junior controller in the Resistance during the sequel trilogy. The character has been portrayed by Billie Lourd, daughter of Carrie Fisher, in Episodes VII-IX. Eno Cordova Eno Cordova is a Jedi Master, presumed survivor of Order 66, and former mentor of Cere Junda and owner of BD-1. He discovered an ancient vault built by the Force-sensitive Zeffo on the planet Bogano, where he hid a Jedi Holocron containing a list of Force-sensitive children, in the hopes that it could someday help rebuild the Jedi Order. The character has been voiced by Tony Amendola in Jedi: Fallen Order and Jedi: Survivor. CT-9904 "Crosshair" CT-9904, or "Crosshair", is a deformed clone trooper and member of Clone Force 99. He is the team's sniper, possessing genetic mutations that give him exceptional eyesight. He is the only member of Clone Force 99 whose biochip is activated when Order 66 is issued, causing him to turn on his squadmates after they rebel against the newly formed Galactic Empire. Crosshair is later put in charge of a unit of conscripted Imperial soldiers, and tasked with hunting down the Bad Batch. Though he eventually learns about his biochip and removes it, he continues to willingly serve the Empire, believing that attempting to fight it is useless and holding a grudge against the Bad Batch for abandoning him. After being forced to work with the Bad Batch to survive Tipoca City's destruction, Crosshair partially makes amends with his former squadmates, but still refuses to join them. He is later captured by Royce Hemlock and imprisoned at Dr Hemlock's base on Mount Tantiss, escaping with Omega and a lurca hound named Batcher. He joins the group on Pabu and at Hunter's request, gets his hand checked out by AZI-3. He is losing his accuracy and has a tremor in his hand from his months on Mount Tantiss. The character has been voiced by Dee Bradley Baker in The Clone Wars and The Bad Batch. Salacious B. Crumb Salacious B. Crumb is a Kowakian monkey-lizard in Jabba the Hutt's court. The character's name (and aspects of its appearance) is derived from creature designer Phil Tippett's drunken mispronunciation of the word "shoelaces" and an homage to underground comix cartoonist Robert Crumb. The character has been performed by Tim Rose in Episode VI, with his voice provided by Mark Dodson. Rose's antics controlling the Crumb puppet led to an increase in the character's prominence. D Figrin D'an Figrin D'an is the leader of the Bith band "Figrin D'an and the Modal Nodes", playing in the Mos Eisley cantina. The character has been portrayed by Rick Baker in Episode IV. Poe Dameron Biggs Darklighter Biggs Darklighter is a pilot for the Rebel Alliance and a childhood friend of Luke Skywalker. In the Battle of Yavin, Darklighter was shot down and killed by Darth Vader. The character has been portrayed by Garrick Hagon in Episode IV. The Daughter One of the Mortis gods, the Daughter is the embodiment of the light side of the Force, child of the Father, and sister to the Son. She is obedient of her father and helps him test Anakin Skywalker to see whether he is the Chosen One and can replace the Father. She ultimately sacrifices herself to save her father from her brother and manages to also save Ahsoka Tano, who had been corrupted by the latter, before dying. She is believed to have been reincarnated as Morai, an owl who is seen accompanying Ahsoka several times and to whom she claims she owes her life. The character has been voiced by Adrienne Wilkinson in The Clone Wars. Dengar Dengar is a Corellian bounty hunter summoned by Darth Vader to hunt for the Millennium Falcon, and he is also briefly visible later in Jabba's Palace. During the Clone Wars, Dengar is part of a syndicate of bounty hunters betrayed by Asajj Ventress on the planet Quarzite. The character has been portrayed by Morris Bush in Episodes V-VI, and voiced by Simon Pegg in The Clone Wars. Dengar attempts to capture Han Solo and Chewbacca in the 2015 Star Wars Marvel comics series story-line "Showdown on the Smuggler's Moon" and makes appearances in the Star Wars: Darth Vader comic series as well. In the Aftermath novels, Dengar both battles and befriends fellow bounty hunter Mercurial Swift, before joining Jas Emari to rescue Norra Wexley during the Battle of Jakku, and receives a pardon from the New Republic. DJ DJ, an acronym for "Don't Join", is a slicer who assists and then betrays Finn and Rose Tico on their mission aboard the First Order flagship, the Mega-class Star Dreadnought Supremacy. The character has been portrayed by Benicio del Toro in Episode VIII. Din Djarin / The Mandalorian Tan Divo Tan Divo is a Coruscant police inspector during the Clone Wars, often displaying a pompous attitude. After the end of the Clone Wars, Divo lived on Alderaan and died when the first Death Star blew up the planet in an event known as "The Disaster". The character has been voiced by Tom Kenny in The Clone Wars. Lott Dod Lott Dod is a Neimoidian senator of the Trade Federation, representing the trade conglomerate's interests in the Galactic Senate. The character has been portrayed by Silas Carson in Episode I (voiced by Toby Longworth), and voiced by Gideon Emery in The Clone Wars. Jan Dodonna Jan Dodonna is a general and leader of the Rebel base on Yavin 4 who plans the attack on the first Death Star. The character has been portrayed by Alex McCrindle in Episode IV, voiced by Michael Bell in Rebels, and portrayed by Ian McElhinney in Rogue One. In Episode IV, he is also the first character to utter the phrase, "May the Force be with you". Count Dooku / Darth Tyranus Cin Drallig Cin Drallig is a Jedi Master who serves as the battlemaster and head of security for the Jedi Temple in the final days of the Clone Wars. He is killed by Darth Vader during the siege of the Jedi Temple. The character has been portrayed by Nick Gillard in Episode III, and voiced by Robin Atkin Downes in The Clone Wars. Caleb Dume / Kanan Jarrus Cara Dune Rio Durant Rio Durant is an Ardennian pilot and long-time associate of criminals Tobias and Val Beckett. He is killed during a failed Coaxium heist for the Crimson Dawn. The character has been voiced by Jon Favreau in Solo. Tala Durith Tala Durith is a disillusioned Imperial officer on Mapuzo who aids Ben Kenobi and Princess Leia via the Path. The character has been portrayed by Indira Varma in Obi-Wan Kenobi. E CT-1409 "Echo" CT-1409, or "Echo", is an ARC Trooper and member of Domino Squad and the 501st Legion, who is seemingly killed in the Battle of Lola Sayu. In reality, however, he was captured and used against his will as a pawn by the Separatists for their campaign on Anaxes. After being rescued by Captain Rex and the Bad Batch, he plays a key role in leading the Republic to victory in the battle of Anaxes, before joining Clone Force 99 as its latest member. Following Order 66, Echo along with most of the team rebel against the Empire and become mercenaries. He later leaves the squad to join Rex to "do more" against the Empire. The character has been voiced by Dee Bradley Baker in The Clone Wars and The Bad Batch. The Eighth Brother The Eighth Brother is a masked Terellian Jango Jumper who trailed the former Sith Lord Darth Maul to the planet Malachor, before falling to his death attempting to flee from the combined might of Maul, Kanan Jarrus, and Ahsoka Tano. The character has been voiced by Robbie Daymond in Rebels. Morgan Elsbeth Morgan Elsbeth is a former protégé of Grand Admiral Thrawn who leads a small Imperial Remnant on the planet Corvus and a survivor of the Nightsisters. She is targeted by Ahsoka Tano, who eventually defeats her and liberates the town of Calodan with Din Djarin's help, before interrogating her for Thrawn's whereabouts. Later, Elsbeth will be freed by her allies Baylan Skoll and Shin Hati. She hires Marrok, a former Inquisitor to kill Ahsoka and free Thrawn from his exile. Despite Marrok's death, Elsbeth, Skoll and Hati go on Peridea and find Thrawn and the Great Mothers. During the battle on Peridea, Elsbeth is killed by Ahsoka. The character has been portrayed by Diana Lee Inosanto in The Mandalorian, Ahsoka, and Tales of the Empire. Embo Embo is a Kyuzo bounty hunter that works for the highest bidder, but has a sense of honor. His weapons include a bowcaster and his hat, which he uses as both a boomerang and board. The character has been voiced by Dave Filoni in The Clone Wars.' Galen Erso Galen Erso is an Imperial research scientist and the father of Jyn Erso. As prime designer of the Death Star, Erso supplies information on a critical weakness which he had deliberately included in the weapon's design to the Rebellion, allowing an attack on the seemingly invulnerable battle station. Despite this, he is later mortally wounded by the Rebels in an attack on an Imperial base on Eadu, and gets to briefly reunite with his daughter before dying. The character has been portrayed by Mads Mikkelsen in Rogue One. Jyn Erso Haja Estree Haja Estree is a human male con artist who worked on the planet Daiyu during the reign of the Galactic Empire. The character has been portrayed by Kumail Nanjiani in Obi-Wan Kenobi. Cornelius Evazan Dr. Cornelius Evazan is a character who antagonizes Luke Skywalker and is subsequently attacked with a lightsaber by Obi-Wan Kenobi in the Mos Eisley cantina. He is a human male with a heavily scarred face, accompanied by his Aqualish associate Ponda Baba. He claims to be a wanted man who has the death sentence in 12 systems. Evazan also bumps into Jyn Erso and threatens her on the streets of Jedha in Rogue One. The character has been portrayed by Alfie Curtis in Episode IV, and by Michael Smiley in Rogue One. F Onaconda Farr Onaconda Farr is a senator from Rodia initially aligned with the CIS, before eventually returning to the Republic thanks to his old friend and fellow Senator Padmé Amidala. He is later killed with a poisoned drink by his personal aide, Lolo Purs, who held him responsible for bringing the war to Rodia. The character has been portrayed by Zuraya Hamilton in Episode II, and voiced by Dee Bradley Baker in The Clone Wars. The Father One of the three Mortis gods, the Father represents the balance of the Force, between his Daughter, who embodies the light side of the Force, and his Son, who embodies the dark side. After growing old, he lures Anakin Skywalker, Obi-Wan Kenobi, and Ahsoka Tano to Mortis in order to test the former and see if he is indeed the "Chosen One" and will bring balance to the Force. He eventually becomes convinced of this, but Anakin refuses his offer to stay on Mortis and become his successor. The Father later commits suicide, which renders the Son mortal and allows Anakin to kill him for all the harm he had done. The character has been voiced by Lloyd Sherr in The Clone Wars. Boba Fett Jango Fett The Fifth Brother The Fifth Brother is the second Inquisitor introduced in Rebels. A gray-skinned humanoid, he and the Seventh Sister are dispatched to hunt down the crew of the Ghost after the death of the Grand Inquisitor. They are both ultimately killed by Maul on Malachor. The character has been voiced by Philip Anthony-Rodriguez in Rebels, and portrayed by Sung Kang in Obi-Wan Kenobi. Finn / FN-2187 Kit Fisto Kit Fisto is a Nautolan Jedi Master and member of the Jedi Council. He dies when attempting to arrest Darth Sidious. The character has been portrayed by Zachariah Jensen and Daniel Zizmor in Episode II, by Ben Cooke in Episode III, and voiced by Phil LaMarr in The Clone Wars. Fisto was first developed as a male Sith concept by concept artist Dermot Power. When the alien Sith apprentice idea was abandoned, Power revisited the tentacle-headed alien as a Jedi, with a less malevolent face, yet still with an imposing presence. He was initially planned to die at the hands of treacherous clone troopers in Order 66. CT-27-5555 "Fives" CT-27-5555, or "Fives", is an ARC Trooper and member of the Domino Squad and the 501st Legion, who participates in numerous battles of the Clone Wars. After witnessing his close friend Clone Trooper Tup unwittingly executing Jedi General Tiplar during the Battle of Ringo Vinda, Fives goes to great lengths to find answers for Tup's actions, ultimately leading to his discovery of Order 66. However, because of this, Palpatine frames him for an assassination attempt. Before he could reveal what he learned to Captain Rex and Anakin Skywalker, Fives is killed by Commander Fox under Palpatine's orders. The character has been voiced by Dee Bradley Baker in The Clone Wars. Bib Fortuna Babu Frik Babu Frik is an Anzellan droidsmith on Kijimi who helps Rey, Finn and Poe Dameron decrypt a message inside C-3PO's memory. He later survives the Sith Eternal's destruction of Kijimi and is present at the Battle of Exegol. The character has been voiced by Shirley Henderson in Episode IX. Henderson later voiced other Anzellan droidsmiths in season 3 of The Mandalorian. Garsa Fwip Garsa Fwip is the Twi'lek owner of The Sanctuary, a cantina in Mos Espa on Tatooine in the years following the fall of the Empire. She briefly interacted with Boba Fett after he assumed control of Jabba's criminal empire, before being killed by the Pykes in the ensuing power struggle. The character has been portrayed by Jennifer Beals in The Book of Boba Fett. G Adi Gallia Adi Gallia is a Tholothian Jedi Master and member of the Jedi Council. Gallia is killed by Savage Oppress during the Clone Wars. She also appears as a disembodied voice empowering Rey to face the rejuvenated Darth Sidious. The character has been portrayed by Gin Clarke in Episode I, and voiced by Angelique Perrin in The Clone Wars and Episode IX. Yarna d'al' Gargan Yarna d'al' Gargan is a Askajian dancer who is enslaved to Jabba the Hutt. The character has been portrayed by Claire Davenport in Episode VI. Garindan Garindan is a Kubaz spy who leads Imperial stormtroopers to the Millennium Falcon. The character has appeared in Episode IV. Phee Genoa Phee Genoa is a pirate who often searches for ancient wonders and artifacts. She becomes close with Clone Force 99 and introduces them to the calm, tropical planet of Pabu. She is voiced by Wanda Sykes in The Bad Batch. Saw Gerrera Steela Gerrera Steela Gerrera is the sister of Saw Gerrera, who was part of his rebellion against the Separatists on Onderon during the Clone Wars, and was killed by a droid gunship during the final battle while risking her life to save King Dendup. Her death deeply affected her brother. The character has been voiced by Dawn-Lyen Gardner in The Clone Wars. Moff Gideon The Grand Inquisitor The Grand Inquisitor is an unnamed Jedi of the Pau'an species who becomes disillusioned with the Jedi Order due to the actions of the Jedi Council during the Clone Wars, and ultimately defects from it during Order 66, joining the Galactic Empire. Trained by Darth Vader alongside the other Inquisitors, he is tasked with hunting down all remaining Jedi throughout the galaxy, a mission which eventually brings him into conflict with Jedi Padawan Kanan Jarrus, the leader of a Rebel cell on the planet Lothal. Following his defeat by Jarrus, the Grand Inquisitor opts to commit suicide to avoid Vader's punishment for his failure. Later, his redemeed spirit, known as the Sentinel, helps Jarrus complete his Jedi training in order to become a Jedi Knight, before being enslaved by the Sith as a Temple Guard once more. The character has been voiced by Jason Isaacs in Rebels and Tales of the Empire. The Grand Inquisitor received positive critical reception, leading to interest in him reprising his role in live-action media on Disney+. Ultimately, Rupert Friend was cast as the Grand Inquisitor, portraying the character in his first live-action appearance in Obi-Wan Kenobi. Commander CC-1004 "Gree" CC-1004, or "Gree", is a clone Commander of the 41st Elite Corps, serving under Jedi Luminara Unduli during the Clone Wars. He takes part in the Battle of Kashyyyk and attempts to carry out Order 66 by executing Yoda, but the Jedi Master senses his intentions and swiftly decapitates him and another trooper. The character has been voiced by Temuera Morrison in Episode III, and voiced by Dee Bradley Baker in The Clone Wars. Greedo Greedo is a Rodian bounty hunter from the Tetsu Clan and worked for crime boss Jabba the Hutt. Greedo's Huttese language is based on Quechua, the Inca language. He appears in the first Star Wars film during a scene where he confronts and threatens Han Solo, only to be killed by Solo. The scene was later altered so that Greedo also shoots at Han, leading to the infamous fan controversy known as "Han shot first", which the character has since come to be most associated with. Greedo was portrayed in 1977 by Paul Blake, as well as Maria De Aragon for some close-in pickup shots in 1977. Linguist Larry Ward performed the voice, speaking in a simplified form of Quechua, a South American language. A younger version of him was played by Simon Rose and Oliver Walpole in a deleted scene from the 1999 prequel film Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace. The character has made appearances in a few other pieces of Star Wars media, including the 2008 animated series Star Wars: The Clone Wars (voiced by Tom Kenny) and the 2015 video game Star Wars Battlefront. Captain CC-5576-39 "Gregor" CC-5576-39, or "Gregor", is a clone Commando thought to have died in the Battle of Sarrish. Stricken with amnesia and living on Abafar, he is later told by Colonel Meebur Gascon that he is a clone trooper, and seemingly sacrifices himself to help the Colonel and his droids to get off Abafar to save many Republic lives. However, he survives this ordeal and eventually returns to the Republic, after which he removes his biochip, so that he would not be forced to carry out Order 66. When the Republic is reorganized into the Empire after the end of the Clone Wars, Gregor is forced to train conscripted Imperial soldiers, until the Bad Batch rescue him. Years later, Gregor ends up in the Seelos system with fellow retired clones Rex and Wolffe, and is shown to have developed some eccentric tendencies. He aids a group of rebels against Imperial forces in a skirmish on the planet, and later takes part in a battle to free the planet Lothal from Imperial occupation, though he is fatally wounded by an Imperial technician during the battle. The character has been voiced by Dee Bradley Baker in The Clone Wars, Rebels, and The Bad Batch. Grievous Din Grogu / The Child Nute Gunray Nute Gunray is the Neimoidian Viceroy of the Trade Federation whose invasion of Naboo is supported by Darth Sidious. His animosity towards Padmé Amidala leads him to join the Separatist Alliance as one of its high-ranking members. Following Count Dooku's death, Gunray was sent with the other Separatist Council leaders to Mustafar by General Grievous where they are eventually executed by Darth Vader. The character has been portrayed by Silas Carson in Episodes I-III, and voiced by Tom Kenny in The Clone Wars. George Lucas, a longtime Democrat, is believed to have created the name based on two famous Republican Party figures he did not care for: Newt Gingrich and Ronald Reagan. H Rune Haako Rune Haako is Nute Gunray's right-hand man. He is a high-ranking member of the Trade Federation the Separatist Council. He is killed along with the other Separatist leaders on Mustafar by Darth Vader. The character has been portrayed by Jerome Blake and James Taylor (voice) in Episode I, by Alan Ruscoe and Chris Truswell (voice) in Episode II, and by Sandy Thompson in Episode III. Shin Hati Shin Hati is the apprentice of former Jedi Baylan Skoll, who found Hati after himself surviving Order 66 and fleeing into the Unknown Regions. During the era of the New Republic, both operate as Dark Jedi mercenaries in search of power, working with Morgan Elsbeth. After the battle on Peridea, Hati stays to lead the Peridea bandits. Her name is an allusion to the celestial wolf Hati in Norse mythology, the companion of the celestial wolf Sköll. The character has been portrayed by Ivanna Sakhno in Ahsoka. Dr. Royce Hemlock Doctor Royce Hemlock served for the Galactic Republic and then became head of the Advanced Science Division based at Mount Tantiss. He reports directly to the Emperor as he works on a secret, highly-classified experiment regarding cloning technology. Dr. Hemlock uses child test subjects in order to yield results. Dr. Hemlock is voiced by Jimmi Simpson in The Bad Batch. Valin Hess Valin Hess is an Imperial officer who used to have Migs Mayfeld as a soldier. He encounters Mayfield again when he and Din Djarin infiltrate an Imperial rhydonium refinery on Morak to discover Moff Gideon's whereabouts and is killed by his former soldier just as he recognizes him because he insulted the soldiers killed during Operation: Cinder. The character has been portrayed by Richard Brake in The Mandalorian. Amilyn Holdo Ri-Lee Howell Ri-Lee Howell is a Jedi Master revealed in Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker - The Visual Dictionary. In this novel, which expands more of the universe in The Rise of Skywalker film, Howell is cited as a Jedi Master who assembled the sacred texts that were passed from Luke Skywalker to Rey. These texts were featured in The Last Jedi. While many of the sacred Jedi texts were stored and lost in subsequently holocrons, Howell's dedication to writing physical passages is what kept them alive. Ri-Lee Howell is named after real-life Riley Howell, a 21-year-old who was killed as he tackled a gunman that opened fire at the University of North Carolina. Because of his actions, he saved his classmates' lives. A profile written by the New York Times following his death read, "He was also a deep scholar of Star Wars, amassing a legion of Jedi action figures with his brother Ted, 14.” Lucasfilm reached out to his family and promised that he would be honored in the Star Wars universe. “Riley’s courage and selflessness brings out the Jedi in all of us,” the letter read. "Hunter" Sergeant "Hunter" is a deformed clone trooper and commander of Clone Force 99. He has genetic mutations that give him enhanced senses, such as tracking and feeling electromagnetic signals. During Order 66, after witnessing Jedi Master Depa Billaba's death, he lets her Padawan, Caleb Dume, escape. After the formation of the Empire, Hunter, along with most of Clone Force 99, rebels and escapes Kamino with a young unaltered clone named Omega. They become mercenaries, and Hunter forms a strong father-daughter relationship with Omega, leading him to want to quit being a soldier to give her a normal life. The character has been voiced by Dee Bradley Baker in The Clone Wars and The Bad Batch. Armitage Hux I IG-88B The IG-88 line was a derivative of the IG-86 sentinel droids used during the Clone Wars. IG-88B later became one of the galaxy's most infamous bounty hunters. Chirrut Îmwe Chirrut Îmwe is a blind warrior who believes in the Force and is said to be one of the Guardians of the Whills. He aids the Rebel Alliance in stealing the plans for the Death Star in Rogue One, and he is killed during the Battle of Scarif. The character has been portrayed by Donnie Yen in Rogue One. J Jabba the Hutt Jannah Jannah is a former First Order stormtrooper originally designated as TZ-1719 who joins the Resistance and befriends Finn. Later Jannah accepts Landos offer to help her find her family The character has been portrayed by Naomi Ackie in Episode IX. CT-5597 "Jesse" CT-5597, or "Jesse", is an ARC Trooper within the 501st Legion who fights in many battles throughout the Clone Wars. During the Siege of Mandalore, he is captured by Darth Maul to be used as bait in luring Ahsoka Tano to him, but is eventually rescued. When Order 66 is issued, Jesse is among the clones to attempt to execute Ahsoka, as well as Rex after he has his chip removed and sides with her. Along with all the other troopers aboard, Jesse is killed when the Venator-class Star Destroyer Tribunal they are on crashes on a small moon, and is buried by Ahsoka and Rex. The character has been voiced by Dee Bradley Baker in The Clone Wars and Tales of the Jedi. Dexter Jettster Dexter Jettster is the Besalisk owner of Dex's Diner, and an old friend of Obi-Wan Kenobi, who provides Kenobi with information regarding the planet Kamino. The character has been voiced by Ronald Falk in Episode II. Tiaan Jerjerrod Moff Tiaan Jerjerrod is the commanding officer of the second Death Star. Jerjerrod is tasked by Darth Vader to hurry the completion of the second Death Star and warned that the Emperor is not as forgiving as Vader. The character has been portrayed by Michael Pennington in Episode VI. Qui-Gon Jinn Cere Junda Cere Junda is a former Jedi Knight who trained Trilla Suduri, survivor of Order 66, and the co-pilot of the Stinger Mantis. She becomes the mentor figure and master for Cal Kestis, while trying to escape her troubled past and resume her own role as a Jedi. The character has been voiced by Debra Wilson in Jedi: Fallen Order and Jedi: Survivor. K Alexsandr Kallus Agent Alexsandr Kallus is a former member of the Imperial Security Bureau who led the efforts to suppress an uprising on the planet Lothal and developed a rivalry with Zeb Orrelios because Kallus took part in the attacks that wiped out much of his kind. He eventually begins to question his morality and loyalty to the Empire after he and Zeb are forced to work together to survive upon being stranded on a remote planet, near Geonosis. By the time Thrawn is promoted to Grand Admiral, Kallus has become a spy for the Rebel Alliance, and fully defects once his treason is discovered. Kallus plays a major role in the liberation of Lothal from Imperial occupation, and ends up befriending Zeb. The character has been voiced by David Oyelowo in Rebels. Maz Kanata Greef Karga Syril Karn Syril Karn is a Deputy Inspector for Preox-Morlana (Pre-Mor) Authority, a corporate conglomerate in charge of a trade sector. Karn works for Pre-Mor's security services and is determined to capture Andor after he is suspected of murdering two Pre-Mor security employees. The character has been portrayed by Kyle Soller in Andor. Soller described his character as having "an extreme sense of need to impress, and fill a hole in himself. And so that really is about ascending to the top of whatever field he's in. The field he's chosen is one of restriction and complete control, and one of domination." Dr. Emerie Karr Doctor Emerie Karr is part of the medical professional team working on a highly-classified experiment at Mount Tantiss. She studies directly underneath Dr. Hemlock, the director of the Empire's Advanced Science Division. However, she shows more compassion to her child test subjects than the others on her team. She is directly related to Omega and Jango Fett. The character has been voiced by Keisha Castle-Hughes in The Bad Batch. Kassius Konstantine Admiral Kassius Konstantine is an Imperial Navy officer who assists the Inquisitors, Darth Vader, and Grand Admiral Thrawn in pursuing the Rebels. He is killed during the Battle of Atollon. The character has been voiced by Dee Bradley Baker in Rebels. Katuunko Katuunko is the Toydarian monarch who aids the Republic during the Clone Wars; killed by Savage Oppress after the Battle of Sullust. The character has been voiced by Brian George in The Clone Wars. Cinta Kaz Cinta Kaz is a human female who was a rebel within a network operated by Luthen Rael in resistance to the Galactic Empire. The character has been portrayed by Varada Sethu in Andor. Obi-Wan Kenobi / Ben Kenobi Cal Kestis Agen Kolar Agen Kolar is an Iridonian Zabrak Jedi Master and member of the Jedi Council. He used to have a green lightsaber like fellow Iridonian Zabrak Jedi Master Eeth Koth but after his Padawan Tan Yuster died during the Geonosian Arena he took his kyber crystal and replaced his green crystal with his Padawan's blue crystal so he could remember him. He is the first Jedi who was killed while trying to arrest Darth Sidious. The character has been portrayed by Tux Akindoyeni in Episodes II-III. Plo Koon Plo Koon is a Kel Dor Jedi Master and Jedi Council member in the prequel trilogy. He discovered Ahsoka Tano on her homeworld, Shili, and participated in many battles during the Clone Wars. He is killed when his Jedi starfighter is shot down at Cato Neimoidia by his own military escort (a squadron of ARC-170 starfighters led by Captain Jag) as part of Order 66. The character has been portrayed by Alan Ruscoe in Episode I, by Matt Sloan in Episodes II-III, and voiced by James Arnold Taylor in The Clone Wars. Eeth Koth Eeth Koth is an Iridonian Zabrak Jedi Master and member of the Jedi Council. He was removed from the Jedi Council at the end of the Clone Wars and intended on leaving the Order, but Order 66 was issued before he could do so. Surviving, he goes into hiding and starts a family, but is eventually tracked down and killed by Darth Vader. The character has been portrayed by Hassani Shapi in Episode I, and voiced by Chris Edgerly in The Clone Wars. Pong Krell Pong Krell is a Besalisk Jedi who serves as a temporary commander of the 501st Legion during the Battle of Umbara in the Clone Wars. He hates clones and has secret aspirations to be Count Dooku's new apprentice, but is executed by the trooper Dogma after his treachery becomes known. His distinct anatomy allows him to wield two double-bladed lightsabers. The character has been voiced by Dave Fennoy in The Clone Wars. Orson Krennic Black Krrsantan Bo-Katan Kryze Satine Kryze Satine Kryze is the Duchess of Mandalore, sister of Bo-Katan, and romantic interest of Obi-Wan Kenobi. A pacifist leader, she tries not to get involved in the Clone Wars, and forms the Council of Neutral Systems, much to the disgust of the Death Watch, who try to assassinate and replace her numerous times throughout the war, but all their attempts are thwarted by the Jedi, particularly Kenobi. The Jedi Master had previously protected Satine in her youth, and the two formed a close bond, with Kenobi claiming that he would have left the Jedi Order a long time ago had Satine asked. Satine later watches her world fall to the Shadow Collective, under Darth Maul, who ultimately murders her in front of a captured Kenobi. The character has been voiced by Anna Graves in The Clone Wars. Kuiil L Beru Whitesun Lars Beru Lars is the step-aunt by marriage and surrogate mother of Luke Skywalker, who takes him in after Luke's mother Padmé Amidala dies in childbirth and his father Anakin Skywalker turns to the dark side and becomes Darth Vader, though she like Owen is told by Anakin's former Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi that Anakin died, but unlike her husband does not seem to resent Obi-Wan. She and her husband Owen are killed by stormtroopers at their home on Tatooine. The character has been portrayed by Shelagh Fraser in Episode IV, and by Bonnie Piesse in Episodes II-III and Obi-Wan Kenobi. Cliegg Lars Cliegg Lars is a moisture farmer who purchases, then frees and marries, Shmi Skywalker, becoming the stepfather of Anakin Skywalker, whom he meets only briefly. He loses his leg when pursuing the Sand People who had kidnapped Shmi. Cliegg passes away sometime between the onset of the Clone Wars and Anakin's turn to the dark side. The character has been portrayed by Jack Thompson in Episode II. The name Cliegg, and variations of it, have been in Star Wars drafts since 1974. Owen Lars Owen Lars is the stepson of Shmi, step-brother of Anakin and step-uncle and surrogate father of Luke Skywalker, who takes him in after Luke's mother Padmé dies in childbirth and his father Anakin falls to the dark side of the force and becomes Darth Vader, although Owen is told by Obi-Wan that his step-brother died, eventually coming to resent the Jedi Master for having taken Anakin away from Shmi and for tearing apart the Skywalker family. Owen and his wife, Beru, are killed by stormtroopers at their home on Tatooine, while Luke was away meeting with Obi-Wan "Ben" Kenobi. The character has been portrayed by Phil Brown in Episode IV, and by Joel Edgerton in Episodes II-III and Obi-Wan Kenobi. Cut Lawquane Cut Lawquane is a former clone trooper who deserted the army to live a quiet life as a farmer on Saleucami. He has a wife Suu and two children, Jek and Shaeeah. During the Clone Wars, he meets Captain Rex, and the pair eventually come to trust one another after working together to defend Cut's family from Commando Droids, with Rex deciding not to report Cut. After the formation of the Galactic Empire, Cut and his family, with help from the Bad Batch, leave Saleucami due to increased military presence on the planet. The character has been voiced by Dee Bradley Baker in The Clone Wars and The Bad Batch. Lobot Lobot is Lando Calrissian's cyborg aide. He has a cybernetic implant that allows him to interface directly with Cloud City's central computer. The character has been portrayed by John Hollis in Episode V. Kino Loy Kino Loy is a Trusty Foreman at the Imperial factory facility on the planet Narkina 5. The character has been portrayed by Andy Serkis in Andor. Serkis previously portrayed Supreme Leader Snoke in the sequel trilogy. M Crix Madine Crix Madine is a Rebel general who comes up with the plan of destroying the shield generator for the second Death Star. The character has been portrayed by Dermot Crowley in Episode VI. Baze Malbus Baze Malbus is a mercenary and friend of Chirrut Îmwe who aids the Rebel Alliance in stealing the plans for the Death Star in Rogue One. He is killed during the Battle of Scarif. The character has been portrayed by Jiang Wen in Rogue One Taron Malicos Taron Malicos is a Jedi Master who fought in the Clone Wars and survived Order 66. Left stranded on Dathomir for years, he eventually succumbed to the dark side and sought to learn the Nightsisters' magic by manipulating Nightsister Merrin. He attempts to lure Cal Kestis to the dark side, but Kestis defeats him with Merrin's help, who buries him alive. The character has been voiced by Liam McIntyre in Jedi: Fallen Order. Kleya Marki Kleya Marki is a human female who served as a concierge at Luthen Rael's gallery of artifacts and antiquities in the upper levels of the galactic capital Coruscant. She is also crucial to the operation of Rael's resistance activities. The character has been portrayed by Elizabeth Dulau in Andor. Rafa and Trace Martez Rafa Martez, a smuggler, and Trace Martez, a pilot and mechanic, are sisters from Coruscant who use a hangar and a laundromat as fronts for Rafa's illegal affairs. After their parents were killed and the Jedi did little to nothing to help them, the sisters became embittered against the Order, and sought to make enough money to leave Coruscant. Near the end of the Clone Wars, the sisters befriend Ahsoka Tano, who helps them when a job to deliver spice to the Pyke Syndicate falls through, leading to Rafa and Trace changing their views of the Jedi. Shortly after the rise of the Galactic Empire, the sisters are hired by Captain Rex to retrieve data from a tactical droid on Corellia, where they have a run-in with the Bad Batch, looking for the same data. In the end, the Bad Batch give the data to Rafa and Trace after learning they want to use it to fight the Empire. Rafa Martez has been voiced by Elizabeth Rodriguez, and Trace Martez has been voiced by Brigitte Kali, both appearing in The Clone Wars and The Bad Batch. Darth Maul Migs Mayfeld Mart Mattin Mart Mattin is a young human Rebel pilot who was in Hera Syndulla's fighter squad during their ultimately ill-fated attack on Lothal City's Imperial base. He is the only other Rebel pilot besides Hera and Chopper to survive the battle and escape captivity, and is later retrieved to join the Lothal Rebel cell in their guerilla fight against the Empire, implementing a secret plan devised by Ezra Bridger to bring in a pod of Purrgil against Admiral Thrawn's fleet. The character has been voiced by Zachary Gordon in Rebels. Dedra Meero Dedra Meero is a supervisor for the Imperial Security Bureau who takes a particular interest into the actions of Cassian Andor and the growing rebellion. The character has been portrayed by Denise Gough in Andor. Ruescott Melshi Sergeant Ruescott Melshi is a member of the Rebel Alliance's special forces during the early stages of the Galactic Civil War. Portrayed by Duncan Pow, the character first appears in the film Rogue One (2016) as part of the team who sacrifices their lives to retrieve the plans for the new Death Star from the Imperial security facility on Scarif. Melshi later appears in the television series Andor (2022–present), set before the events of Rogue One, which chronicles how he and Cassian Andor met in, and broke out of, Imperial prison. Melshi has also made appearances in Star Wars books, audiobooks, and a video game. Sly Moore Sly Moore is an Umbaran personal aide of Palpatine and one of the few people aware of his identity as Darth Sidious. The character has been portrayed by Sandi Findlay in Episodes II-III. Mon Mothma General Motti General Motti makes an appearance in the Death Star conference room early in Episode IV. He gets Force Choked by Darth Vader after he expresses little faith in Vader's ability to use the Force. The character was portrayed by Richard LeParmentier in the original Star Wars movie. Peli Motto Peli Motto is a docking bay attendant and ship mechanic working at Mos Eisley who is visited several times by Din Djarin, befriending him and Grogu. The character has been portrayed by Amy Sedaris in The Mandalorian and The Book of Boba Fett. Ki-Adi-Mundi Ki-Adi-Mundi is a Cerean Jedi Master and Jedi Council member in the prequel trilogy. He is one of the leaders of the Jedi strike force sent to rescue Obi-Wan Kenobi, Anakin Skywalker, and Padmé Amidala on Geonosis, and a Jedi General during the Clone Wars. At the end of the Clone Wars, he leads his clone troopers in the Battle of Mygeeto, and is killed as a result of Order 66. Originally, Saesee Tiin was planned to die with him. The character has been portrayed by Silas Carson in Episodes I-III, and voiced by Brian George in The Clone Wars and Tales of the Jedi. N Rugor Nass Boss Rugor Nass is a Gungan leader who first established a treaty with the Naboo humans, and he later attends Padmé Amidala's funeral. He was the one to banish Jar Jar Binks but he also let Jar Jar Binks be a general. The character has been voiced by Brian Blessed in Episode I. Enfys Nest Enfys Nest is the leader of a gang of pirates called the Cloud Riders, who are revealed to be supporters of the nascent Rebel Alliance. The character has been portrayed by Erin Kellyman in Solo. Captain Needa Needa was a captain of the Imperial Star Destroyer Avenger in The Empire Strikes Back (portrayed by Michael Culver) who pursued the Millennium Falcon into the Asteroid Field after the Battle of Hoth. After losing track of the craft Vader kills him via the Force. 99 "Ninety-Nine" "99" is a deformed clone trooper who helps the Domino Squad during the Clone Wars. He is killed during one of the battles of Kamino. He is the namesake of Clone Force 99. The character has been voiced by Dee Bradley Baker in The Clone Wars. Jocasta Nu Jocasta Nu is a Jedi librarian featured in the prequel trilogy. She survives Order 66, but is later killed by Darth Vader. The character has been portrayed by Alethea McGrath in Episode II, and voiced by Flo Di Re in The Clone Wars and Tales of the Jedi. Nien Nunb O Commander CC-2237 "Odd Ball" CC-2237, or "Odd Ball", is a clone Commander and pilot, who participates in several battles throughout the Clone Wars under the command of Obi-Wan Kenobi, such as the Battle of Teth, the Battle of Umbara, the Battle of Coruscant, and the Battle of Utapau. A skilled pilot, Odd Ball flies an assortment of starfighters, including the V-19 Torrent and the ARC-170. The character has been voiced by Temuera Morrison in Episode III, and voiced by Dee Bradley Baker in The Clone Wars. Barriss Offee Barriss Offee is a Mirialan Jedi apprentice of Luminara Unduli and a close friend of Ahsoka Tano. She later betrays Ahsoka and frames her for a terrorist bombing after she becomes disillusioned with the Jedi Order's wartime policies. Offee is eventually unmasked and defeated by Anakin Skywalker, resulting in her arrest. The character has been portrayed by Nalini Krishan in Episode II, and voiced by Meredith Salenger in The Clone Wars and Tales of the Empire. Hondo Ohnaka Hondo Ohnaka is the leader of the space pirates known as the Ohnaka Gang which kidnaps and attempts to ransom Obi-Wan Kenobi, Anakin Skywalker, Count Dooku—and later Ahsoka Tano—to the highest bidder during the Clone Wars. He follows a code of honor and respects the Jedi, whom he ends up helping several times in the war, but is not above using sneaky tactics and treachery if it is for "good business". Years after the Clone Wars, despite losing his crew to the Galactic Empire, Hondo continues his criminal activities while having dealings with the crew of the Ghost. The character has been voiced by Jim Cummings in The Clone Wars, Rebels, and Forces of Destiny. Ric Olié Pilot who flies the queen's ship while escaping Naboo and an N-1 starfighter as leader of Bravo Squadron. The character has been portrayed by Ralph Brown in Episode I. Omega Omega is a young female clone who served as Nala Se's medical assistant on Kamino, until joining Clone Force 99 to escape from the planet after their betrayal of the Empire. She is later revealed to be an unaltered clone of Jango Fett, similar to Boba Fett. She is captured by the Empire as she is the only clone with a perfectly replicated M-count and she gets brought to Dr Hemlock's base on Mount Tantiss. She later escapes Mount Tantiss with a lurca hound that she rescued called Batcher, and she also brings along a very reluctant Crosshair. She returns to Pabu, where Asajj Ventress (who was hired by Fennec Shand after Hunter and Wrecker complete a bounty for Shand) tests her for Force sensitivity, which she fails. The character has been voiced by Michelle Ang in The Bad Batch. Ketsu Onyo Ketsu Onyo is a Mandalorian bounty hunter and former estranged friend of Sabine Wren. She and Sabine were cadets at the Imperial Academy, later escaping and becoming bounty hunting partners before Ketsu left Sabine for dead and began working for the Black Sun. After they reconcile, Ketsu aids the Rebel Alliance. The character has been voiced by Gina Torres in Rebels and Forces of Destiny. Oola Oola is a Twi'lek dancer enslaved by Jabba the Hutt and chained to his throne; she is killed by Jabba's rancor after dancing for him. The character has been portrayed by Femi Taylor in Episode VI. New scenes featuring the character were filmed for the Special Edition of Return of the Jedi. When Taylor arrived for her reshoots, producers were stunned to discover she still fit into her original costume and had barely aged at all in the 15 years since originally shooting her scenes. Taylor credited this to her impressive dance career. Savage Opress Savage Opress is a Dathomirian Zabrak Nightbrother, and the brother of Darth Maul. He is hand picked by Asajj Ventress as part of her scheme to kill Count Dooku for the attempt on her life and is altered by the Nightsisters, becoming more of a berserker on Ventress' call to the point of killing Feral, (his adoptive brother), without remorse, Opress manages to become Dooku's new apprentice and learns only a bit in the ways of the Sith before Ventress has him help her fight Dooku, due to his actions under him getting unwanted attention from the Jedi. However, in the heat of the moment and provoked by both of them, Opress tries to kill both Dooku and Ventress before escaping the Jedi and instructed by Mother Talzin to find Maul so he can complete his training to defend himself against the numerous enemies he has made. Finding Maul a shell of his former self on a junk planet, Opress manages to stir up his fellow nightbrother's grudge with Obi-Wan to aid him in his revenge against the Jedi. He is later killed in a duel by Darth Sidious on Mandalore. The character has been voiced by Clancy Brown in The Clone Wars. Bail Organa Bail Organa is Leia Organa's adoptive father, a Senator of Alderaan and one of the Rebel Alliance's founding members. He adopts Leia after his ally and her birth mother, Padmé, dies and her birth father, Anakin Skywalker, becomes Darth Vader. Bail is killed in the destruction of Alderaan by the Death Star. The character has been portrayed by Jimmy Smits in Episodes II-III, Rogue One, and Obi-Wan Kenobi, and voiced by Phil LaMarr in The Clone Wars, Rebels, Tales of the Jedi and The Bad Batch. He first appeared in Attack of the Clones, portrayed by Jimmy Smits, though he appeared in scenes cut from The Phantom Menace, where he was portrayed by Adrian Dunbar, with Dunbar's character retconned into a separate character named Bail Antilles. Breha Organa Breha Organa is Queen of Alderaan, wife of Bail Organa, and adoptive mother of Leia Organa. She is killed in the destruction of Alderaan. The character has been portrayed by Rebecca Jackson Mendoza in Episode III, and by Simone Kessell in Obi-Wan Kenobi. Breha is also featured in the short story "Eclipse" and in the 2017 novel Leia, Princess of Alderaan. Leia Organa Garazeb "Zeb" Orrelios Garazeb "Zeb" Orrelios is the former Captain of the Lasat high honor guard who rose up against the Empire, which led to the near-extinction of his people. He is the muscle of the Ghost crew, serving under call sign Spectre 4. The genocide campaign against his people left him with a gruff demeanor, as well as leading him into conflict with Agent Kallus, though eventually Kallus defects from the Empire to join the Alliance as a Rebel spy. The character has been voiced by Steve Blum in Star Wars Rebels and The Mandalorian. The physical appearance of the Lasat species is based on Ralph McQuarrie's original conceptual artwork for Chewbacca. Art director Kilian Plunkett said: "Zeb actually is very articulate and witty and funny, and that's sort of juxtaposed with what he looks like, makes for an interesting character". P Sheev Palpatine / Darth Sidious Quarsh Panaka Quarsh Panaka is the captain of the Queen Amidala's guard. The character has been portrayed by Hugh Quarshie in Episode I. In the novel Leia, Princess of Alderaan, he meets a young Leia Organa, but is subsequently assassinated by Saw Gerrera and his Partisans. Baron Papanoida Baron Papanoida is a Pantoran Senator and Chairman of the Pantoran Assembly. The character has been portrayed by George Lucas in Episode III, and voiced by Corey Burton in The Clone Wars. Gilad Pellaeon Gilad Pellaeon is an Imperial officer who served as a captain in the naval forces of the Galactic Empire as part of Grand Admiral Thrawn's Seventh Fleet. He was first introduced in Timothy Zahn's Thrawn trilogy. The character made his live-action debut in the third season of The Mandalorian. The character has been voiced by Jim Cummings in Rebels and voiced by Xander Berkely in Tales of the Empire. Berkeley previously portrayed the character in The Mandalorian. Doctor Penn Pershing Penn Pershing is an Imperial Doctor working for Moff Gideon who experiments on Grogu, but does not want to harm him. The character has been portrayed by Omid Abtahi in The Mandalorian. Captain Phasma Even Piell Even Piell is a Lannik Jedi Master and Council Member. During the Clone Wars, he participated in a mission regarding the Nexus Route, a key hyperspace lane discovered in the Outer Rim. Piell was captured, imprisoned, and tortured in the prison known as the Citadel, along with Wilhuff Tarkin, who held the other half of the secret information. A rescue mission was sent, but Piell was killed by local wolf-like anoobas just after giving Ahsoka Tano his piece of the information. The character has been portrayed by Michaela Cottrel in Episode I, and voiced by Bair Bless in The Clone Wars. Firmus Piett Unkar Plutt Unkar Plutt is a Crolute Junkboss on the planet Jakku who pays out portions of food in exchange for pieces of salvage. He attempts to bargain the droid BB-8 from Rey and then tries to steal it when she refuses, but Rey ends up fleeing the planet by stealing the Millennium Falcon from him. The character has been portrayed by Simon Pegg in Episode VII, and voiced by Dee Bradley Baker in Forces of Destiny. Poggle the Lesser Poggle the Lesser is the Archduke of Geonosis, part of the Techno Union and one of the Separatist leaders killed by Darth Vader on Mustafar. Poggle controls the Geonosian battle droid factories and commands the droid army that fought in the two battles of Geonosis. He also assists in the early planning and construction of the first Death Star. The character has been voiced by Marton Csokas in Episode II, and voiced by Matthew Wood in The Clone Wars. Commander CT-411 "Ponds" CT-411, or "Ponds", is a Clone Commander who serves Mace Windu in the Clone Wars. He helps organize clone commando units on Geonosis and fights on Ryloth and Malastare in later battles. He is eventually captured by a group of bounty hunters and executed by Aurra Sing in an attempt to lure Windu into a trap. The character has been voiced by Temuera Morrison in Episode II, and voiced by Dee Bradley Baker in The Clone Wars. Yarael Poof Yarael Poof was a Quermian Jedi High Council member who died between Episode I and Episode II. The character has been portrayed by Michelle Taylor in Episode I. Jek Porkins Jek Porkins is a portly X-wing pilot codenamed "Red Six" who is killed in the attack on the first Death Star. The character has been portrayed by William Hootkins in Episode IV. Porkins has gained some comedic notoriety due to his size, manner and untimely death, which was spoofed in the Family Guy episode Blue Harvest. Arihnda Pryce Arihnda Pryce is the Imperial Governor of Lothal. She was killed when the Lothal Insurgents blew up the Imperial Dome during the Liberation of Lothal. The character has been voiced by Mary Elizabeth McGlynn in Rebels. Her backstory is explored in the novel Star Wars: Thrawn. Enric Pryde Enric Pryde is a former Imperial Admiral who rose to prominence as Allegiant General of the First Order during Kylo Ren's reign. He develops a rivalry with General Hux, whom he eventually executes after discovering his treason, and later is put in charge of the Sith Eternal's fleet, the Final Order, during the Battle of Exegol, where he dies when the command bridge of his Resurgent-class Star Destroyer Steadfast is destroyed by Finn. The character has been portrayed by Richard E. Grant in Episode IX. Lom Pyke Lom Pyke is Minister of the Pyke Syndicate during the Clone Wars who joins the Shadow Collective and participates in the attack on Sundari with his criminal allies. When the Jedi Council later investigate the disappearance of Sifo-Dyas, Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker are sent to Oba Diah to confront the Pykes. Lom is forced to tell the truth behind the death of Sifo-Dyas to the Jedi, as well as the Pykes' involvement, though he offers his prisoner Silman in return for amnesty. When Count Dooku learns of this, he arrives on Oba Diah and kills Lom. The character has been voiced by Matt Lanter in The Clone Wars. Q Qi'ra Quarrie Quarrie (voiced by Corey Burton) is a Mon Calamari engineer living on the planet Shantipole. He built the prototype B-wing, the Blade Wing, which was gifted to Hera in "Wings of the Master", and later oversaw the secret construction of more B-wings for the Rebel Alliance at Senator Organa's request. The character has been voiced by Corey Burton in Rebels. He is named after Star Wars concept artist Ralph McQuarrie. Qui-Gon Jinn R Raddus Raddus is a green-skinned Mon Calamari admiral of the Rebel Alliance that perishes during the Battle of Scarif. He serves as the namesake of the Resistance MC85 Star Cruiser known as the Raddus. The character has been portrayed by Paul Kasey and voiced by Stephen Stanton in Rogue One. Luthen Rael Luthen Rael is a part of the Rebel Alliance who hires Cassian on his first mission as a Rebel operative. Publicly, Luthen poses as an eccentric antiques dealer from Coruscant. The character has been portrayed by Stellan Skarsgård in Andor. Lyn Rakish / The Fourth Sister The Fourth Sister is the second Inquisitor introduced in Obi-Wan Kenobi. She was originally a Jedi Knight, but fell to the dark side of the Force and joined the Galactic Empire by becoming part of the Inquisitorius, Jedi hunters at the service of Darth Vader to hunt the Jedi into extinction. The Fourth Sister is later involved in trying to track down Obi-Wan Kenobi, a survivor of Order 66. The character has been portrayed by Rya Kihlstedt in Obi-Wan Kenobi and Tales of the Empire. Dak Ralter Dak Ralter is Luke Skywalker's snowspeeder gunner who dies in the Battle of Hoth when their snow speeder is damaged by an Imperial walker. The character has been portrayed by John Morton in Episode V. Vice Admiral Edmon Rampart Vice Admiral Rampart moved up the ranks after the fall of the Republic. He was stationed on Kamino to oversee the clone trooper for the new Galactic Empire. He unquestionably loyal to Governor Tarkin. Rampart gets arrested after the Galactic Senate sees evidence of his order destroying a city. He is sent to a forced labor camp on Erebus and is labeled as a traitor to the Empire. He is later rescued by Clone Force 99 as they need him to locate Mount Tantiss and rescue a trapped Omega. He is voiced by Noshir Dalal in The Bad Batch. Oppo Rancisis Oppo Rancisis is a Thisspiasian Jedi Master and Jedi Council member. He was trained by fellow Jedi Master Yaddle and at the end of the Clone Wars, he survived Order 66. The character has been portrayed by Jerome Blake in Episode I. Fenn Rau Fenn Rau is the leader of the Protectors of Concord Dawn, part of the elite Protectors organization who guard the royal family of Mandalore. A veteran of the Clone Wars, he accepted Imperial bribes to prevent rebel travel through his system, but later ordered his men to permit rebel passage to keep the Empire away after being captured by Sabine. He later sided with the Rebellion after his men were slaughtered by the Imperial Super Commandos and eventually joined Clan Wren in the Mandalorian Civil War. The character has been voiced by Kevin McKidd in Rebels. Max Rebo Max Rebo is an Ortolan keyboard player and leader of the Max Rebo Band. The character has been portrayed by Simon Williamson in Episode VI, as well as making a cameo appearance in The Book of Boba Fett. Ren Captain CT-7567 "Rex" Rey Nossor Ri Nossor Ri was the chieftain of the Quarren and lead the Quarren Isolation League. Ri conspired with the CIS to attack the Mon Calamari during the Clone Wars. He eventually realized his mistake and betrayed the CIS. Decades later he sacrificed his life to help the Resistance escape the First Order attack on Mon Cala. The character has been voiced by Corey Burton in The Clone Wars. Kawlan Roken Kawlan Roken is a human male dissident during the height of the Galactic Empire, who operated an underground network known as Hidden Path that smuggled surviving Jedi and Force-sensitives to safety during the Great Jedi Purge. The character has been portrayed by O'Shea Jackson Jr. in Obi-Wan Kenobi. Bodhi Rook Roshti Roshti is Governor of the planet Kiros and leader of a colony of 50,000 Togruta during the Clone Wars. The character has been voiced by Corey Burton in The Clone Wars. Rukh Rukh is a Noghri assassin who serves as an agent and tracker under Grand Admiral Thrawn. He has a keen sense of smell which he uses to track down victims, and he wields an electrostaff. He first tracks the Spectres after they try to escape with vital information about the TIE Defender, and he captures Hera Syndulla after the Rebel Alliance's failed attack on the Lothal TIE factory. Rukh battles Kanan during Hera's escape, and after getting knocked off the roof, tracks the escapees. He battles both Zeb and Sabine, but is defeated and nearly beaten to death by Zeb until Sabine stops him and sends him back unconscious and covered in paint by Sabine to the city as a living message to the Imperial forces. Rukh is later killed after Zeb traps him in an generator during the final battle on Lothal. The character has been voiced by Warwick Davis in Rebels and Tales of the Empire. Rukh originally appeared in the Star Wars Legends Thrawn novel trilogy, where he is Thrawn's bodyguard who ultimately turns against and kills Thrawn. S Sabé Sabé is one of Padmé Amidala's handmaidens. Sabé is the queen's decoy; for parts of the movie, the Sabé character is addressed as Amidala. She reappears in the Darth Vader comics. The character has been portrayed by Keira Knightley in Episode I. Vel Sartha Vel Sartha is a Rebel leader on the planet Aldhani, and cousin of Mon Mothma. In 2023, the character was portrayed by Faye Marsay in Andor. Jun Sato Jun Sato is the commander of the rebel cell Phoenix Squadron, which the Ghost crew joins. He is also the uncle of Rebel pilot Mart Mattin. He sacrifices himself during the Battle of Atollon in order for Ezra Bridger to get reinforcements. The character has been voiced by Keone Young in Rebels. Gar Saxon Gar Saxon is a Mandalorian warrior who serves under Darth Maul. Alongside Rook Kast, he aids Maul's escape from Darth Sidious and commands his forces during the Siege of Mandalore, until Maul betrays them and allows them to be captured by the Republic in order to make his own escape. Following the Galactic Empire's takeover of Mandalore, Saxon becomes Imperial Viceroy and Governor, wiping out the protectors, but is ultimately defeated by Sabine Wren and killed by Ursa Wren. The character has been voiced by Ray Stevenson in The Clone Wars and Rebels. Tiber Saxon Tiber Saxon is Gar Saxon's brother, appointed Imperial Governor of Mandalore and leader of the Super Commandos after his brother was killed by Clan Wren. To put down the Mandalorian rebellion, he ordered the construction of a weapon known as an Arc Pulse Generator, code-named the "Duchess" (after the late Duchess Satine Kryze), developed by Sabine Wren when she was a cadet at the Imperial Academy on Mandalore. The weapon specifically targeted the alloy used in Mandalorian armor and superheated it, vaporizing the wearer. However, as Sabine had destroyed the plans and damaged the prototype when she defected, the weapon was not at its full potential; Grand Admiral Thrawn ordered the new Governor Saxon to capture Sabine to perfect the weapon. Imprisoned aboard Saxon's Imperial I-class Star Destroyer in the Mandalorian capital, Sabine altered the weapon to affect the alloys in Imperial armor, before breaching its core with the Darksaber and escaping. The explosion vaporized the Star Destroyer, killing Saxon and those of his men still on board. The character has been voiced by Tobias Menzies in Rebels. Nala Se Nala Se is a Kaminoan scientist in charge of the cloning process. She cares for her medical assistant, a young female clone named Omega, and helps her and Clone Force 99 escape from Kamino after they betray the Empire. The character has been voiced by Gwendoline Yeo in The Clone Wars and The Bad Batch. Sebulba Sebulba is a Dug podracer who competes against Anakin Skywalker. He is very arrogant and competitive, and will resort to any means to achieve victory, even cheating. Once a slave, Sebulba's podracing skills bought his freedom. The character has been voiced by Lewis MacLeod in Episode I. Aayla Secura Aayla Secura is a Twi'lek Jedi. She is one of the thousands of Jedi to fall victim of Order 66, getting betrayed and killed by her own clone troopers on Felucia. Aayla also appears as a disembodied voice empowering Rey to face the revived Darth Sidious. The character has been portrayed by Amy Allen in Episodes II-III, and voiced by Jennifer Hale in The Clone Wars and Episode IX. Zev Senesca Zev Senesca is a member of the Rebel Alliance and Rogue Squadron pilot, designated as "Rogue Two", Senesca pilots a snowspeeder and dies during the Battle of Hoth in combat against the Imperial AT-AT walkers. He is also the pilot who locates Han Solo and Luke Skywalker, who are stranded in the snow away from the Rebel base on Hoth. The character has been portrayed by Christopher Malcolm in Episode V. Reva Sevander / The Third Sister Reva Sevander is a ruthless, ambitious Inquisitor who survived Order 66 as a Jedi Youngling. She takes special interest in hunting down Obi-Wan Kenobi among other surviving Jedi, blaming him for Anakin Skywalker's turn to the dark side to become Darth Vader. Secretly, she plans to use her position to assassinate Vader for killing her Youngling friends, stabbing and apparently killing the Grand Inquisitor and succeeding him in his role. Ultimately, she fails and is stabbed by Vader, revealing that her treachery was already suspected, and that the previous Grand Inquisitor survived her attempt at killing him. She survives and tries to seek further revenge on Vader by killing his young son, Luke, but she decides against it and reconciles with Kenobi. The character has been portrayed by Moses Ingram in Obi-Wan Kenobi. The Seventh Sister The Seventh Sister is a Mirialan Inquisitor introduced in the second season of Rebels, who uses mini probe droids to track her targets. After the Grand Inquisitor's death, she and the Fifth Brother are tasked with hunting the Ghost crew. They are both ultimately killed by Maul on Malachor. The character has been voiced by Sarah Michelle Gellar in Rebels. Fennec Shand Aurra Sing Aurra Sing is a feared Palliduvan bounty hunter from Nar Shaddaa. She was once a member of the Jedi Order and had a past romantic relationship with Hondo Ohnaka. During the Clone Wars, Aurra takes jobs with other mercenaries such as Cad Bane, and even becomes a mentor and mother figure to a young Boba Fett. She is apparently killed by Tobias Beckett at a later point. The character has been portrayed by Michonne Bourriague in Episode I, and voiced by Jaime King in The Clone Wars. Tera Sinube Tera Sinube is an elderly Cosian Jedi Master who wielded a white lightsaber based on a cane sword. Sinube spent most of his time studying in the Jedi Temple Archives, and formed a friendship with Ahsoka Tano while helping her recover her stolen lightsaber. After the rise of the Empire, Sinube's body was discovered by Obi-Wan Kenobi in the Fortress Inquisitorius, preserved in amber, and likely meaning he survived Order 66 before being killed by Inquisitors. The character has been voiced by Greg Baldwin in The Clone Wars. The Sixth Brother The Sixth Brother is an Inquisitor of unknown species and origin, sent to hunt down and kill the rogue Jedi Ahsoka Tano after her escape from Order 66 based on the tip of a local villager who observed her using the Force. The Sixth Brother slaughters most of the community, and he is eventually killed by Tano after a quick duel. The character has been voiced by Clancy Brown in Tales of the Jedi. Baylan Skoll Baylan Skoll is a former Jedi who survived Order 66 by fleeing into the Unknown Regions, where he took on Shin Hati as his apprentice. During the era of the New Republic, both operate as Dark Jedi mercenaries in search of power, working with Morgan Elsbeth. After they found Thrawn and the battle of Peridea, Skoll follows his own agenda to pursue a mysterious force calling out to him. His name is an allusion to the celestial wolf Sköll in Norse mythology, the companion of the celestial wolf Hati. The character has been portrayed by Ray Stevenson in Ahsoka. Anakin Skywalker / Darth Vader Luke Skywalker Shmi Skywalker Shmi Skywalker is the mother of Anakin Skywalker, and Luke and Leia's paternal grandmother. Qui-Gon Jinn attempts to bargain for her freedom from slavery but fails. Shmi encourages Anakin to leave Tatooine with Qui-Gon to seek his destiny, but Anakin finds it hard to leave without her. A widowed moisture farmer named Cliegg Lars later falls in love with Shmi, and after he purchases her freedom from Watto, they marry. Shmi dies in Anakin's arms after being kidnapped and tortured by Tusken Raiders. The character has been portrayed by Pernilla August in Episodes I-II and The Clone Wars. Snoke Sy Snootles Sy Snootles is a female Pa'lowick and lead vocalist of the Max Rebo Band. During the Clone Wars, she is Ziro the Hutt's lover, but works as a spy for the Hutt Clan and eventually kills him. The character has been performed by puppeteers Tim Rose and Mike Quinn in Episode VI, and voiced by Annie Arbogast in Episode VI, and voiced by Nika Futterman in The Clone Wars. Osi Sobek Osi Sobek is a Phindian CIS commander who serves as the warden of the prison known as "The Citadel" on the planet Lola Sayu. He is killed by Ahsoka Tano during a mission to break out Jedi Master Even Piell. The character has been voiced by James Arnold Taylor in The Clone Wars. Ben Solo / Kylo Ren Han Solo The Son One of the Mortis gods, the Son is the embodiment of the dark side of the Force, child of the Father, and brother to the Daughter. Unlike his sister, he is often disobedient to their father and secretly wishes to kill him so that he could escape from Mortis. To this ends, he corrupts Ahsoka Tano with his dark influence, and attempts to seduce Anakin Skywalker, whom the Father believed to be the Chosen One and a possible successor, to the dark side, which he briefly succeeds in doing by showing him visions of his future, until the Father erases those visions from Anakin's mind. While attempting to kill the Father, the Son accidentally kills his sister and, though devastated, does not stop from trying to achieve his goal. Realizing this, the Father commits suicide to render the Son mortal, who finally reconciles with him before Anakin kills him. The character has been voiced by Sam Witwer in The Clone Wars. Lama Su Lama Su is the Prime Minister of Kamino. During the Clone Wars, he is revealed to be in the employ of Darth Tyranus as part of the scheme to have the clones eliminate the Jedi. The character has been voiced by Anthony Phelan in Episode II, and by Bob Bergen in The Clone Wars and The Bad Batch. Trilla Suduri / The Second Sister Trilla Suduri is an Inquisitor and former Jedi Padawan of Cere Junda, who was captured and tortured by the Empire after Cere betrayed her location under intense interrogation. She is assigned to hunt down Cal Kestis and retrieve a Holocron containing a list of Force-sensitive children. She is later killed by Darth Vader for her failure. The character has been voiced by Elizabeth Grullon in Jedi: Fallen Order. The Second Sister also makes a cameo appearance in the comic series Darth Vader: Dark Lord of the Sith. Cham Syndulla Cham Syndulla is a Twi'lek freedom fighter who opposes the Separatists independently before allying with the Republic Army when the Clone Wars come to Ryloth. In the aftermath of the Clone Wars, Cham opposes the newly established Galactic Empire's occupation of his world and becomes distanced from his daughter Hera after the death of her mother due to his single-minded determination to liberate Ryloth at any cost. The pair are later reconciled after Cham and his warriors Gobi and Numa team up with Hera's crew to steal an Imperial carrier and shoot down an Imperial cruiser over Ryloth. The character has been voiced by Robin Atkin Downes in The Clone Wars, Rebels, and The Bad Batch. Hera Syndulla Jacen Syndulla Jacen Syndulla is a male human and Twi'lek hybrid who was born during the time of the Galactic Civil War. He was the son of General Hera Syndulla and the late Jedi Knight Kanan Jarrus, and the grandson of Twi'lek revolutionary leader Cham Syndulla. The character has been portrayed by Evan Whitten in Ahsoka. T Orn Free Taa Orn Free Taa is a Twi'lek who represents Ryloth in the Galactic Senate during the prequel trilogy. The character has been portrayed by Jerome Blake in Episode I, by Matt Rowan in Episodes II-III, and voiced by Phil LaMarr in The Clone Wars and The Bad Batch. General Taggi / Tagge General Taggi, portrayed by Don Henderson in the original Star Wars movie, makes an appearance in the Death Star conference room. He says that the Rebel Alliance should be taken more seriously, and seems appalled by the news of the dissolution of the Imperial Senate. In Marvel Comics, the character is given a back story and is referred as Cassio Tagge or Grand General Tagge. Mother Talzin Mother Talzin is the Dathomirian leader of the Nightsister clans before and during the Clone Wars, and the biological mother of Maul, Savage Opress, and Feral. She possesses great magical powers, including mind control, manipulating matter, and turning into mist. Following General Grievous's attack on Dathomir, she is one of the few surviving Nightsisters. Later, Talzin manipulates a cult into stealing the living Force within other beings and collect it in an orb for her. When enough is collected, Talzin intends to absorb the Force and gain great strength beyond any other Jedi or Sith. However, she is defeated by the combined efforts of Mace Windu and Jar Jar Binks. She is later killed by Grievous during a fight with Palpatine and Dooku. The character has been voiced by Barbara Goodson in The Clone Wars. Wat Tambor Wat Tambor is the Skakoan Foreman of the Techno Union and Executive of Baktoid Armor Workshop before and during the Clone Wars. He serves on the Separatist Council during the Clone Wars and helps to fund and supply the Confederacy of Independent Systems. He is one of the Separatist leaders killed by Darth Vader on Mustafar. The character has been voiced by Chris Truswell in Episode II, and voiced by Matthew Wood in The Clone Wars. Ahsoka Tano / Fulcrum / Ashla Wilhuff Tarkin Tarfful Tarfful is a Wookiee chieftain who, along with Chewbacca, commands the Wookiee warriors during the Battle of Kashyyyk, and later helps Yoda escape the clone troopers after Order 66 is given. The character has been portrayed by Michael Kingma in Episode III. He also appears in the video game Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order. Roos Tarpals Roos Tarpals is a Gungan soldier who held the rank of Captain, and later General. He fought during the Clone Wars for the Gungan Grand Army and the Galactic Republic, starting with the Battle of the Grassy Plains in Naboo. He is killed in a confrontation with General Grievous, sacrificing his life to ensure the Confederate leader's capture. The character has been voiced by Steve Speirs in Episode I, and voiced by Fred Tatasciore in The Clone Wars. Jaro Tapal Jaro Tapal is a Lasat Jedi Master who trained Cal Kestis and sacrificed himself to help him escape during Order 66. Tapal's death haunted Cal for years, who blamed himself for what happened, but he eventually found the strength to forgive himself. The character has been voiced by Travis Willingham in Jedi: Fallen Order. "Tech" "Tech" is a deformed clone trooper and member of Clone Force 99. He is the team's brains, having genetic mutations that make him more intelligent and skilled with technology than other clones. Following Order 66, Tech along with most of the team rebel against the Empire and become mercenaries. He sacrifices himself for the Bad Batch so that the rest of them can return safely. The character has been voiced by Dee Bradley Baker in The Clone Wars and The Bad Batch. Lor San Tekka Lor San Tekka is a former explorer and a devout follower of the Church of the Force, as well as an old ally of Luke Skywalker, living on the planet Jakku. He gives Poe Dameron a fragment of the map needed to find Luke, and is subsequently executed by Kylo Ren. The character has been portrayed by Max von Sydow in Episode VII. Carson Teva Carson Teva is Captain in the New Republic's Starfighter Corps from Alderaan who rescues Din Djarin from a swarm of ice spiders on Maldo Kreis, and later offers Greef Karga the chance to help the New Republic defeat the Empire. The character has been portrayed by Paul Sun-Hyung Lee in The Mandalorian, The Book of Boba Fett and Ahsoka. Thrawn Shaak Ti Shaak Ti is a Togruta Jedi Master and member of the Jedi Council. She is killed by Darth Vader at the Jedi Temple on Coruscant during Order 66. The character has been portrayed by Orli Shoshan in Episodes II-III, and voiced by Tasia Valenza in The Clone Wars. Rose Tico Saesee Tiin Saesee Tiin is an Iktotchi Jedi Master and member of the Jedi High Council. He is the second of the four Jedi Masters who dies trying to arrest Darth Sidious. He uses a green lightsaber. The character has been portrayed by Khan Bonfils in Episode I, by Jesse Jensen in Episode II, by Kenji Oates in Episode III, and voiced by Dee Bradley Baker in The Clone Wars. Initially, he and Ki-Adi Mundi were going to be gunned down in Order 66 on Mygeeto in Revenge of the Sith. Trench Trench is the Harch Admiral of the Separatist Navy who commands the blockade of the planet Christophsis. He is one of the most skilled military tacticians at the time and supposedly has a history of being able to track cloaked ships. He seemingly dies early in the Clone Wars, but later reemerges with cybernetics covering nearly half of his body. Trench is finally killed by Anakin Skywalker. The character has been voiced by Dee Bradley Baker in The Clone Wars. CC-5385 "Tup" CC-5385, or "Tup", is a rookie clone trooper who has a teardrop tattoo on his face, and matching designs on his helmet. He participates in the Battle of Umbara, and was key to the capture of rogue Jedi General Pong Krell. During his time in the campaign on Ringo Vinda, Tup's biochip malfunctions, leading him to carry out Order 66 earlier than intended. As Tup was being shipped back to Kamino for evaluation, he was kidnapped by the Separatists but recovered shortly afterwards. He dies of medical complications on Kamino during the ensuing investigation. The character has been voiced by Dee Bradley Baker in The Clone Wars. Gregar Typho Gregar Typho is the nephew of Captain Panaka, and Amidala's bodyguard. The character has been portrayed by Jay Laga'aia in Episodes II-III, and voiced by James Mathis III in The Clone Wars. U Luminara Unduli Luminara Unduli is a Mirialan Jedi Master in the prequel trilogy and Barriss Offee's mentor. She is killed as a result of Order 66. Luminara's body was used to lure Rebels and surviving Jedi into a trap, under the guise that she was still alive. Luminara later appears as a disembodied voice empowering Rey to face the revived Darth Sidious. The character has been portrayed by Mary Oyaya in Episode II, Fay David in Episode III, and voiced by Cree Summer in Clone Wars, and by Olivia d'Abo in The Clone Wars and Episode IX. V Finis Valorum Finis Valorum is the Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic, who is ousted from office, allowing Palpatine to rise to power. The character has been portrayed by Terence Stamp in Episode I, and voiced by Ian Ruskin in The Clone Wars. Finis valorum is Late Latin for "the end of values". According to performer Terence Stamp, the character was intended by George Lucas to be based on then-President of the United States Bill Clinton as a "good but beleaguered man," although Stamp noted that this had been before the Clinton impeachment trial. Valorum's name stems from the original drafts of The Star Wars, in which it belonged to a character combined with Vader, then Vader's master, before being phased out of the original trilogy. Cobb Vanth Maximilian Veers General Maximilian Veers is commander of the 501st Legion who leads the Empire's attack on Hoth, commanding the lead AT-AT Imperial Walker. The character has been portrayed by Julian Glover in Episode V. Asajj Ventress Iden Versio Cikatro Vizago Cikatro Vizago is a Devaronian crime lord who the Ghost crew occasionally runs errands and smuggles goods for in exchange for credits and information. He later aids the Ghost crew in getting past the Imperial blockade of Lothal, but is found out, sold as a slave to the Mining Guild and made to operate an ore crawler skimming Lothal's surface for minerals. After being freed by Ezra's team, he joins the Lothal rebels, and assists the Ghost crew in the final battle against Governor Pryce and Grand Admiral Thrawn. The character has been voiced by Keith Szarabajka in Rebels. Paz Vizsla Pre Vizsla Pre Vizsla is a Mandalorian warlord and the leader of the Death Watch during the Clone Wars. He wields the Darksaber, an ancient lightsaber forged by his ancestor, Tarre Vizsla. As the governor of Concordia, one of Mandalore's moons, Pre Vizsla initially forms a secret alliance with Count Dooku to take control of Mandalore by overthrowing its pacifist government led by Duchess Satine Kryze. Vizsla breaks ties with Dooku when their plan fails, and he later allies with Darth Maul and Savage Opress in recruiting the Black Sun, the Pyke Syndicate and the Hutt Clan to form a criminal organization known as the Shadow Collective. After ousting Duchess Satine, Vizsla betrays his allies and has them imprisoned, but Maul escapes and challenges Vizla to single combat. Vizsla accepts and is defeated by Maul, who executes him and takes over Mandalore and the Death Watch. The character has been voiced by Jon Favreau in The Clone Wars. Dryden Vos Dryden Vos is a near-human crime lord who serves as the figurehead of the Crimson Dawn crime syndicate, led from the shadows by Darth Maul, and has history with Tobias Beckett, whom he recruited to steal coaxium for him. He is killed and replaced by his top lieutenant, Qi'ra. The character has been portrayed by Paul Bettany in Solo. Vos also briefly appears as a hologram in the final season of The Clone Wars, which establishes him as a lieutenant of Maul from during the Clone Wars. Quinlan Vos Quinlan Vos is a Kiffar Jedi Master in The Clone Wars, and the master of Jedi Aayla Secura. He teams up with (and falls in love with) Asajj Ventress in an attempt to assassinate Count Dooku, but ends up turning to the dark side. He is eventually redeemed with Ventress's help, who sacrifices herself to save him. Vos later respectfully buries her on her homeworld, Dathomir, and is reinstated into the Jedi Order. He is one of the few known survivors of Order 66. The character has been voiced by Al Rodrigo in The Clone Wars. The character's design was based on a background extra from the Tatooine set in The Phantom Menace, and this extra was retroactively made Vos on a secret mission for the Jedi Council. W Wicket W. Warrick Watto Taun We Taun We is a Kaminoan administrator who guides Obi-Wan Kenobi during his visit to the cloning facility. Following the rise of the Empire, she is killed by Fennec Shand. The character has been voiced by Rena Owen in Episode II and The Bad Batch. During filming, Owen wore a maquette of the alien's head atop a hardhat, providing her co-stars with the proper eye-line for talking with the character. Zam Wesell Zam Wesell is a Clawdite bounty hunter hired by Jango Fett to assassinate Padmé Amidala. She fails in her mission and is killed with a poison dart by Fett before she could reveal his involvement. The character has been portrayed by Leeanna Walsman in Episode II. Temmin "Snap" Wexley Temmin "Snap" Wexley is a Resistance X-wing fighter pilot, and he dies during the Battle of Exegol. He is the son of wayward Rebel pilot Norra Wexley. The character has been portrayed by Greg Grunberg in Episode VII and IX. He is also a major character in the Star Wars: Poe Dameron comic series, as well as the Aftermath trilogy as a resourceful teenager. Mace Windu Commander CC-3636 "Wolffe" CC-3636, or "Wolffe", is a Clone Commander of the 104th Battalion and leader of the "Wolfpack", serving under Jedi Plo Koon during the Clone Wars. During the war, he gained a large scar on his right eye. He is one of the few clones to have removed his inhibitor chip and, as such, was not forced to carry out Order 66. During the Galactic Empire era, he ends up in the Seelos system with fellow clones Rex and Gregor, and later helps the Rebels free Lothal from Imperial occupation. The character has been voiced by Dee Bradley Baker in The Clone Wars and Rebels. "Wrecker" "Wrecker" is a deformed clone trooper and member of Clone Force 99. He is the team's muscles, having genetic mutations that make him much larger and stronger than other clone troopers. Following Order 66, Wrecker along with most of the team rebel against the Empire and become mercenaries. Though Wrecker's biochip is later activated, causing him to briefly turn on his squadmates, though they manage to remove it from his brain and restore his free will. The character has been voiced by Dee Bradley Baker in The Clone Wars and The Bad Batch. Sabine Wren X Xi'an Xi'an is a Twi'lek member of Ranzar Malk's crew, who is skilled in fighting with a knife, the sister of Qin, and an old associate and former lover of Din Djarin. After her brother is captured and imprisoned aboard a New Republic transport, the crew tries to rescue with the help of Djarin. Xi'an and the others secretly planned to abandon Djarin once they released Qin, but he outsmarts and defeats them, resulting in their arrest. The character has been portrayed by Natalia Tena in The Mandalorian. Hamato Xiono Hamato Xiono is a human male senator from the planet Hosnian Prime who served in the New Republic Senate and is the father of Resistance operative Kazuda Xiono. By 9 ABY, Xiono was performing his duties as a senator in the New Republic. During this time, his ideals for the direction the burgeoning republic should take directly clashed with warnings from General Hera Syndulla of the Imperial Grand Admiral Thrawn's return, culminating in a failed attempt to court-martial her for disobeying direct orders. The character has been voiced by Tzi Ma in Star Wars Resistance, and he is portrayed by Nelson Lee in Ahsoka. Y Yaddle Yaddle is a female member of Yoda's mysterious species who appears as a member of the Jedi Council. She trained Cal Kestis' Master Jaro Tapal and she is killed attempting to stop Dooku from turning to the dark side. The character has been portrayed by Phil Eason in Episode I, and voiced by Bryce Dallas Howard in Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi. She was created from a concept art by Iain McCaig for a young Yoda. Yoda Wullf Yularen Wullf Yularen is an Imperial officer on the first Death Star. During the Clone Wars, Yularen served as an admiral in the Republic Navy, and a leader of Anakin Skywalker's fleet. He is later transferred to colonel and also the leader of the Imperial Security Bureau. He was killed in the destruction of the Death Star. The character has been portrayed by Robert Clarke in Episode IV, voiced by Tom Kane in The Clone Wars and Rebels, and portrayed by Malcolm Sinclair in Andor. Z Ziro the Hutt Ziro is a Galactic Basic-speaking Hutt crime lord, Jabba the Hutt's flamboyant uncle, and Mama the Hutt's son, who secretly plots to overthrow the Hutt Clan and usurp all their power. During the Clone Wars, he makes a secret plan with Count Dooku to have Jabba's son captured by Assajj Ventress and blame the Jedi for the incident, but their scheme fails, as Jabba's son is rescued by Anakin Skywalker and Ahsoka Tano, and Ziro is discovered and arrested by Padmé Amidala. While in prison, he hires Aurra Sing to assassinate Amidala, but she fails. Later, fearing that Ziro will give the Republic the Hutt Council's records that he had hidden away, Jabba hires Cad Bane and a team of bounty hunters to break him out of prison, with them taking several Senators hostage in exchange for Ziro's release. Ziro then meets with the rest of the Hutt Clan on Nal Hutta, but refuses to tell them where he had hidden the records and, thus, is imprisoned. He is broken out by his lover, Sy Snootles, shortly after, and the two of them head over to Mama the Hutt's house on Teth, where the records are located. However, Snootles betrays Ziro and reveals that she was hired by Jabba to find the records, before killing him. The character has been voiced by Corey Burton in The Clone Wars. Zuckuss Zuckuss is a Gand bounty hunter among those who answer Darth Vader's call to capture the Millennium Falcon. He is a skilled tracker, and often works alongside the droid 4-LOM. The character has been portrayed by Cathy Munroe in Episode V. The action figure of the character released in Kenner's original Star Wars action figure line was misidentified as his droid colleague "4-LOM". See also

Chewbacca Chewbacca ( choo-BAH-kə), nicknamed "Chewie", is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise created by George Lucas. He is a Wookiee—a tall, hairy, highly intelligent species originating from the planet Kashyyyk. He is 7.5 feet (2.3 m) tall, and typically wears only a bandolier and a tool pouch. He carries a bowcaster, a traditional Wookiee weapon, and he speaks the Wookiee language Shyriiwook. He first appears in the original film trilogy as the loyal friend of the smuggler Han Solo. He is also the co-pilot of Han's starship, the Millennium Falcon. Chewbacca is portrayed by Peter Mayhew in five films. In The Force Awakens, Mayhew shares the role with Joonas Suotamo, who took over the portrayal for subsequent films. Chewbacca also appears in animated series, novels, comics, and video games.

Cobb Vanth Cobb Vanth (also known as The Sheriff and later The Marshal), is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. Introduced in the 2015–2017 Chuck Wendig novel trilogy Aftermath, he is a former slave who has used the Mandalorian armor of Boba Fett to bring order to Tatooine "Freetown" Mos Pelgo in the five years after the events of the 1983 film Return of the Jedi. Throughout the trilogy, Cobb faces off against the Red Key Raiders mining collective, the Tusken Raiders, and a krayt dragon, and while successful in defeating the former is unable to find the latter. The character reappears in the second season of the Disney+ television series The Mandalorian, set years after the events of the Aftermath trilogy and depicting Cobb joining forces with the Tuskens and the series' title character to finally defeat the krayt dragon. He is portrayed by Timothy Olyphant, who reprised the role in spin-off series The Book of Boba Fett, where Cobb faces off against the Pyke Syndicate and their representative, Cad Bane.

Coruscant Cosmopolitan urban world consisting of one planet-wide city. Coruscant is situated in the heart of the Star Wars galaxy with a population of over one trillion, and is Governmental center of the Galactic Republic and later the Galactic Empire. Home to the main Jedi Temple.[35]

Count Dooku Count Dooku of Serenno, also known by his Sith name Darth Tyranus, is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise, created by George Lucas. He is an antagonist in the Star Wars prequel trilogy, appearing in both Episode II – Attack of the Clones (2002) and Episode III – Revenge of the Sith (2005), played by Christopher Lee, as well as associated media, such as books, comics, video games, and television series. Actor Corey Burton has voiced Dooku in most of his animated and video game appearances, most notably Star Wars: Clone Wars (2003–2005), Star Wars: The Clone Wars (2008–2014; 2020), and the miniseries Tales of the Jedi (2022). Lee reprised the role in the 2008 animated film that launched The Clone Wars series. In the fictional Star Wars universe, Dooku is a prominent political figure as the Count of his home planet of Serenno, as well as a former Jedi Master, who was trained by Yoda and mentored Obi-Wan Kenobi's master Qui-Gon Jinn. After becoming disillusioned with the corruption within the Galactic Republic's Senate and losing his faith in the Jedi Order, he eventually falls to the dark side of the Force and becomes Darth Sidious' second Sith apprentice, after Darth Maul. Dooku plays a pivotal role in Sidious' rise to power, leading the Confederacy of Independent Systems (made up of numerous planetary systems seeking independence from the Republic) throughout the Clone Wars, all the while engineering the creation of the Republic's clone army. Although Dooku hopes this will allow him to rule the galaxy alongside Sidious, and eventually overthrow him, he is ultimately betrayed by his master who arranges his death at the hands of his replacement, Anakin Skywalker. Dooku's character and Christopher Lee's portrayal in the prequel films were met with generally positive reactions from fans and critics. Since the release of the films, Dooku has been highlighted as one of the best Star Wars villains, and a foil for Anakin Skywalker, whose transformation into Darth Vader is foreshadowed through Dooku's own fall to the dark side.

Crait Small mineral planet located in a remote section of the galaxy, its surface is covered with a layer of white salt over its red-colored soil. In Leia, Princess of Alderaan it is the location of an early Rebel Alliance outpost. Leia and her remaining Resistance forces flee there in The Last Jedi, where they face off with the First Order.

Dantooine Rural planet and the former site of a Rebel base. The writers of Rogue One considered depicting the Rebels evacuating the base for Yavin 4, but "it didn't move the story forward and it would have cost a ton of money."

Darth Bane Darth Bane is a fictional character created by George Lucas in the Star Wars franchise. In the Star Wars universe, Darth Bane is a powerful Sith Lord who lived one thousand years before the events of the films and is known for being the originator of the Sith's "Rule of Two", which states: "One master and one apprentice can be the only Sith in the galaxy at a time". Before it the Sith empire was structured like the Jedi but due to their shortfalls he killed them and created this new rule. In 2014, when Lucasfilm officially rebranded the Star Wars expanded universe as Star Wars Legends, and declared it non-canon to the franchise, most of his appearances, including the comic series Jedi vs. Sith and the novels Darth Bane: Path of Destruction, Darth Bane: Rule of Two and Darth Bane: Dynasty of Evil, ceased to be canon, leaving his only canonical appearances in the sixth season of Star Wars: The Clone Wars, in which his Force ghost is voiced by Mark Hamill, a mention in Star Wars (2020) #20, and a reference in Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker, in which Darth Sidious claims his body to contain the spirits of all Sith since Bane (a concept introduced in Dynasty of Evil), whose name is among those his acolytes chant.

Darth Maul Darth Maul, later known simply as Maul, is a character in the Star Wars franchise. He first appeared in the 1999 film Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace (portrayed by Ray Park and voiced by Peter Serafinowicz) as a powerful Sith Lord and Darth Sidious' first apprentice. Though seemingly killed by Obi-Wan Kenobi at the end of the film, Darth Maul returned in the 2008 animated series Star Wars: The Clone Wars (voiced by Sam Witwer). Star Wars creator George Lucas had intended for the resurrected Maul to serve as the main antagonist of the sequel film trilogy, but these plans were abandoned when Disney acquired Lucasfilm in 2012. The character nonetheless reappeared in the 2014 animated series Star Wars Rebels and the 2018 film Solo: A Star Wars Story, voiced again by Witwer; Park physically reprised the role in Solo. Since his initial defeat in The Phantom Menace, Maul has become an independent criminal mastermind and endured as Obi-Wan's archenemy. Darth Maul is a Zabrak Sith Warrior from Dathomir who is abducted by Sidious as a child and trained in the ways of the dark side of the Force. He mortally wounds Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn during the Battle of Naboo before being bisected by Qui-Gon's apprentice, Obi-Wan. Fueled by his hatred, Maul survives and is driven insane over a decade of isolation until his brother, Savage Opress, finds him during the Clone Wars. Once his mind and body are restored with magick and cybernetics by the Nightsister Mother Talzin, Maul obsessively seeks revenge against Obi-Wan. He unites various crime syndicates under his leadership, orchestrates a takeover of Mandalore and murders Obi-Wan's lover, Duchess Satine Kryze. Maul is captured by Sidious for becoming a threat, but escapes before the Republic is replaced by the Galactic Empire. He renounces his Sith title of "Darth", rebuilds his criminal organization and manipulates Ezra Bridger into helping him find Obi-Wan on Tatooine, where the two old rivals have a final confrontation that ends in Maul’s death. In addition to the films and television series, the character has appeared in various forms of media in the Star Wars Expanded Universe, including novels, comic books and video games. Despite his limited presence in The Phantom Menace, Darth Maul has become a fan favorite in the franchise and a widely recognised villain in popular culture for his intimidating appearance and double-bladed lightsaber. His resurgence and expanded characterization in The Clone Wars further heightened his popularity within the Star Wars fandom and earned him a cult following.

Darth Vader Darth Vader () is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise created by George Lucas. He is the primary antagonist of the original film trilogy and, as Anakin Skywalker, is a protagonist of the prequel trilogy. Born into slavery, he eventually becomes a powerful Jedi. He is lured to the dark side of the Force by Chancellor Palpatine, and transforms from Anakin into the Sith Lord Darth Vader. After being severely wounded in a lightsaber battle, he becomes a cyborg. He is the husband of Padmé Amidala, the father of Luke Skywalker and Leia Organa, and the grandfather of Ben Solo. David Prowse physically portrays Vader in the original trilogy, while James Earl Jones provides his voice in all of the films and some television series. Jake Lloyd and Hayden Christensen portray Anakin in the prequel trilogy, and Christensen also plays him in the series Obi-Wan Kenobi (2022) and Ahsoka (2023). In the standalone film Rogue One (2016), Vader is portrayed by Spencer Wilding and Daniel Naprous. The character also appears in novels, comics, and video games. He has become an iconic villain of cinema.

Dathomir Sith world and homeworld of the Nightsisters, including the Force-sensitive Asajj Ventress. Also the homeworld of the Zabrak warriors, including Darth Maul. A remote world, perpetually bathed in blood-red sunlight and home to numerous dangerous predators.

Doctor Aphra Doctor Chelli Lona Aphra, or simply Doctor Aphra, is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. Created by writer Kieron Gillen, artist Salvador Larroca, and editors Jordan D. White and Heather Antos, she first appeared in Marvel Comics' 2015 Darth Vader comic book series. Aphra became a breakout character, and began appearing in her own ongoing spin-off comic series, Star Wars: Doctor Aphra, from 2016 to 2019, before relaunching in 2020. Aphra is a morally questionable, criminal archaeologist initially employed by Darth Vader in his efforts to replace Palpatine as leader of the Galactic Empire, who later goes into hiding from the former after betraying him to the latter and faking her death, briefly establishing a love–hate relationship with Imperial officer Magna Tolvan. Supported by droids 0-0-0 and BT-1, and later by her former partner Sana Starros, she is considered a war criminal by the Rebel Alliance. Aphra is the first original Star Wars character not from the films to lead a Marvel comic series.

Eadu Rocky, mountainous planet beset by constant severe storms. Home to an Imperial weapons research facility. Its appearance was partly inspired by the fictitious planet LV-426 from the Alien franchise.

Endor (Sanctuary) Forest moon that the second Death Star orbits, and house to an Imperial outpost. Inhabited by Ewoks. The location of the battle between the Rebel Alliance and the Empire leading to the destruction of the second Death Star.

Exegol A stormy planet in the galaxy's "Unknown Regions", with its location deliberately obscured by Republic and Jedi efforts. An ancient bastion of the Sith, it serves as the lair of Darth Sidious and the Sith Eternal during the construction of a Sith armada known as the Final Order.

Ezra Bridger Ezra Bridger is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise, voiced by Taylor Gray. He is featured as the main protagonist of the animated series Star Wars Rebels (2014–2018) and appears in related works. Ezra also appears in Forces of Destiny (2018) with Gray reprising his role. The character makes his live-action debut in the television series Ahsoka (2023), portrayed by Eman Esfandi. In Rebels, Ezra is introduced as a 14-year old orphaned street urchin and con artist who joins the crew of the Ghost in freeing his home planet of Lothal from the tyranny of the Galactic Empire and is taken under the wing of Kanan Jarrus, who trains him in the Jedi arts, and later former Sith Maul, who trains him in how to wield the dark side of the Force. Ezra and the crew join the Rebel Alliance to assist them in their fight to free the galaxy as a whole, and face enemies such as the Inquisitors, Darth Vader, and Grand Admiral Thrawn—the latter of whom Ezra sacrifices himself to defeat, disappearing with him into another galaxy. In Ahsoka, years after the fall of the Empire, Sabine Wren travels to the other galaxy to rescue Ezra; while Ezra returns to the galaxy with Thrawn, Sabine and Ahsoka Tano are left stranded in his place. The character has received a generally positive critical reception, with his character dynamics with Hondo Ohnaka and Thrawn receiving particular praise.

Fennec Shand Fennec Shand is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise portrayed by Ming-Na Wen in the Disney+ television series The Mandalorian, The Bad Batch, and The Book of Boba Fett. An elite mercenary and assassin, she was introduced in "Chapter 5: The Gunslinger" of The Mandalorian, in which she is sought by the show's title character and another bounty hunter, Toro Calican, who seemingly kills her. "Chapter 14: The Tragedy" established that Fennec was saved by Boba Fett, leaving her in his debt, and had parts of her body replaced with cybernetics. As Fett's new partner, she assists him in his mission to recover his old armor from the Mandalorian, and later to rescue Grogu to honor an agreement made with the latter. Once their mission is completed, the two conquer Tatooine and the remnants of the Hutt cartels. In The Book of Boba Fett, Fennec and Fett come into conflict with various enemies attempting to seize power from them, leading them to ally with the Mandalorian once more to defend their new crime empire. The character has been received positively by reviewers and fans alike and has been described as a fan favorite.

Finn (Star Wars) Finn (designation FN-2187) is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. He first appears in the 2015 film The Force Awakens as a First Order stormtrooper. Disturbed by the Order's cruelty during his first combat mission, he flees and joins forces with the Resistance pilot Poe Dameron and the scavenger Rey. He is portrayed by John Boyega, who reprises the role in The Last Jedi (2017) and The Rise of Skywalker (2019). Boyega won the BAFTA Rising Star Award for his performance in The Force Awakens. He was also nominated for a Saturn Award for the same performance.

General Grievous General Grievous is a character in the Star Wars franchise created by George Lucas. He was introduced in the 2003 animated series Star Wars: Clone Wars (voiced by John DiMaggio in the second season and Richard McGonagle in the third season), before appearing through computer-generated imagery in the 2005 live-action film Star Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith (voiced by Matthew Wood). Wood reprised the role in the 2008 animated series Star Wars: The Clone Wars and the 2024 anthology series Tales of the Empire. Grievous is depicted as a brilliant military strategist who serves as the Supreme Commander of the Confederacy of Independent Systems' Droid Armies during the Clone Wars. He is a powerful Kaleesh cyborg who has mastered all forms of lightsaber combat, under the tutelage of Count Dooku, to rival the Force abilities of the Jedi of the Galactic Republic. Grievous harbors an intense hatred of the Jedi, and gains a reputation as a feared and ruthless Jedi hunter who collects the lightsabers of his fallen victims as trophies. He develops a rivalry with Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi, whom he clashes with several times during the war, and is killed by Kenobi during their final confrontation in Revenge of the Sith. Entertainment publications described Grievous as among the franchise's most iconic villains, and his popularity within the Star Wars fandom has earned him a cult following. The character has also appeared in several forms of non-canonical media in the Star Wars Expanded Universe, including novelizations, comic books, and video games. Some of these works explore his past as Qymaen jai Sheelal, a reptilian warlord whose vendetta against the Jedi began when he blamed them for the plight of his people. A ship crash secretly orchestrated by Dooku mortally wounds Grievous and leads to his reconstruction as a cyborg. This origin story was retroactively altered in The Clone Wars, in which it is implied that Grievous willingly augmented his body with cybernetic enhancements to rival the Jedi, although several elements of his original backstory were later reintegrated into the Star Wars canon.

General Hux General Armitage Hux is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. First introduced in the 2015 film Star Wars: The Force Awakens, he is portrayed by Irish actor Domhnall Gleeson. He is an unpleasant military commander in a power struggle with Kylo Ren for the First Order leadership, and being exceeded only by Supreme Leader Snoke. The character first featured in The Force Awakens media and merchandising, and returned in the film's sequels, The Last Jedi (2017) and The Rise of Skywalker (2019).

Geonosis Rocky desert planet where battle droids are manufactured, and the site of the opening battle of the Clone Wars. All life on the planet is presumed destroyed by the Empire in Star Wars Rebels, with two exceptions: Klik-Klak and his offspring. Primary construction site of the first Death Star. Homeworld of the Geonosians.

Grand Admiral Thrawn Grand Admiral Thrawn (full name: Mitth'raw'nuruodo; born: Kivu'raw'nuru) is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. He first appeared in what came to be known as the Thrawn trilogy of novels (1991–1993) by Timothy Zahn. An Imperial military leader and a member of the Chiss race, Thrawn leads remnants of the scattered Galactic Empire in the aftermath of its fall. In the Thrawn trilogy, Thrawn returns from the unknown and leads Imperial remnants in a campaign against the New Republic, facing off against classic Star Wars characters Luke Skywalker, Princess Leia, Han Solo, Chewbacca, and Lando Calrissian, before seemingly being resurrected in the Hand of Thrawn duology (1997–1998), with his backstory explored in various other novels, short stories, comics, and video games in the Star Wars expanded universe. In 2014, these stories were rebranded as Star Wars Legends by Lucasfilm and rendered non-canon. Thrawn reentered official canon in the 3D animated TV series Star Wars Rebels from 2016 to 2018, voiced by Lars Mikkelsen. Zahn published a new Thrawn trilogy (2017–2019) and then the Thrawn Ascendancy trilogy (2020–2021), reinventing Thrawn as an anti-villain and double agent who infiltrates the Empire's ranks on behalf of his own people and the galactic government of the Unknown Regions, the Chiss Ascendancy. He intends to use Imperial resources to engage in open warfare with the extragalactic fanatics, the Grysk, before they can invade the galaxy, in the meantime opposing the Rebel Alliance on Palpatine's behalf before being forcibly sent to another galaxy by and alongside Ezra Bridger. Thrawn made his live-action debut in the Disney+ series Ahsoka (2023), with Mikkelsen reprising his role. Mikkelsen later reprised the voice role in the animated anthology series Tales of the Empire (2024). Thrawn has been called one of the most significant and popular characters in the Legends continuity. Several Star Wars action figures and other merchandise have been produced of the character.

Grand Moff Tarkin Grand Moff Wilhuff Tarkin is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise, introduced as the main antagonist of the original 1977 Star Wars film (although he has less screen time than his iconic equal Darth Vader), in which he was played by Peter Cushing. In the film, Tarkin is depicted as a high-ranking officer of the Galactic Empire, placed in charge of the operations on the Death Star, the Empire's moon–sized battle station. He orders the destruction of the planet Alderaan by the station's superlaser, and dies at the end of the film when the Death Star is destroyed by Luke Skywalker. Apart from the original film, Tarkin has made appearances in various canon and non-canon Star Wars media, including the animated series The Clone Wars, Rebels, and The Bad Batch, and the films Revenge of the Sith and Rogue One. He is also the protagonist of the 2014 novel Tarkin, which details the character's backstory and rise to power within the Empire's ranks. In the novel, Tarkin advocates for the Tarkin Doctrine, a military system based on "the threat of force, rather than force itself". His philosophy becomes central to Imperial policy and earns him the position of the first Grand Moff in the Empire. (In the Galactic Empire, a "Moff" is the governor of a Sector, or subdivision of the Empire; a "Grand Moff" is the governor of an Oversector, a grouping of several Sectors.) Tarkin's character has been well received, and he has been called "one of the most formidable villains in Star Wars history."

Greef Karga High Magistrate Greef Karga is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise who appears in the Disney+ television series The Mandalorian. A former leader of the Bounty Hunters' Guild, he provides the show's title character with the bounty that leads him to meet Grogu, an alien infant also known as "The Child" and “Baby Yoda” by fans. Greef serves as both an ally and adversary to the Mandalorian at different points in the first season, and returns as an ally in the second and third seasons. Greef Karga was created by Jon Favreau, the creator and showrunner of The Mandalorian. The character was originally planned only to appear in a handful of episodes, but Favreau and the writers liked the character so much that the role was expanded. Greef is portrayed by Carl Weathers, whom Favreau knew through the Directors Guild of America. Weathers accepted the part under the condition that he could direct future episodes of The Mandalorian; Weathers directed the episodes "Chapter 12: The Siege", which was Greef's only appearance in the show's second season, and the season three episode "Chapter 20: The Foundling". Elements of the character's background have deliberately been kept mysterious, though it was revealed in the first-season finale that he was previously a disgraced government official, and Weathers said his backstory would be further developed in the second season. Weathers performed his stunts for The Mandalorian. He has described the role as "one of the greatest things that's happened in all of the years that I've been in entertainment". Greef has received generally positive feedback from fans and reviewers. For his performance in the second season, Weathers was nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actor in a Drama Series.

Grogu Din Grogu (), colloquially referred to as Baby Yoda, is a character from the Star Wars Disney+ original television series The Mandalorian and The Book of Boba Fett. He is a toddler member of the same species as the Star Wars characters Yoda and Yaddle, with whom he shares a strong ability in the Force. In the series, the protagonist known as "the Mandalorian" is hired to track down and capture Grogu for a remnant of the fallen Galactic Empire, but instead, he becomes his adoptive father and protects him from the Imperials. The character's real name was not revealed until "Chapter 13: The Jedi", which also explained that Grogu was raised at the Jedi Temple on Coruscant during the Clone Wars. Before this, the character's official name, used in subtitles and captions, was "the Child". At the end of "Chapter 24: The Return", he is given the name Din Grogu after being formally adopted by the Mandalorian, whose family name is "Din". Grogu has appeared in every episode of the first three seasons, except "Chapter 15: The Believer". He was created by The Mandalorian creator and showrunner Jon Favreau based upon his desire to explore the mystery around Yoda and his species. The character was further developed in early conversations between Favreau and executive producer Dave Filoni, and the character's imagery was defined by concept artist Christian Alzmann. Grogu is mostly a work of animatronics and puppetry, although accentuated with computer-generated imagery. The puppet was designed by Legacy Effects. Actor Adam Pally has stated that showrunner Jon Favreau told him it cost about $5 million to make. It is controlled by two technicians, one who operates the eyes and mouth and another who controls other facial expressions. The character's voice and sounds were created using a combination of adult and infant vocals, as well as recordings of a bat-eared fox and kinkajou. The dynamic between the Mandalorian and Grogu embodies a theme of parenting and fatherhood prevalent in The Mandalorian, with the character also raising questions about good and evil and nature versus nurture in the series. Grogu has received a positive reception from fans and reviewers, is widely considered the show's breakout character, and quickly became a popular Internet meme. The Guardian called him "2019's biggest new character", and The Hollywood Reporter has said the character "represents the future of Hollywood". Many writers have described Grogu as a key part in the success of Disney+. Grogu was kept secret and was deliberately withheld from The Mandalorian's pre-release marketing and merchandise plans to avoid leaks and spoiling Grogu's reveal before the show aired.

Han Solo Han Solo () is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise created by George Lucas. He first appeared in the 1977 film Star Wars, portrayed by Harrison Ford, who reprised the role in The Empire Strikes Back (1980), Return of the Jedi (1983), The Force Awakens (2015), and The Rise of Skywalker (2019). In Solo: A Star Wars Story (2018), a younger version of the character is played by Alden Ehrenreich. In the animated web series Forces of Destiny (2017–2018), Solo is voiced by A.J. LoCascio and Kiff VandenHeuvel. Ford won a Saturn Award for his portrayal of Solo in The Force Awakens. In the original trilogy, Solo and his friend Chewbacca are smugglers who are hired to transport Obi-Wan Kenobi and Luke Skywalker to Alderaan so they can deliver stolen plans for the Death Star. Solo eventually joins the Rebel Alliance in its struggle against the Galactic Empire, and falls in love with Princess Leia. In the sequel trilogy set decades later, Solo joins forces with Leia, the scavenger Rey and the former stormtrooper Finn in their campaign against the First Order. Solo's son with Leia, Ben Solo, is a leader in the First Order and eventually kills his father. Solo was ranked as the 14th greatest film hero by the American Film Institute, and was selected as the fourth greatest film character by Empire magazine. Entertainment Weekly ranked Solo as the seventh coolest hero in popular culture.

Han shot first "Han shot first" refers to a controversial change made to a scene in the film Star Wars (1977), in which Han Solo (Harrison Ford) is confronted by the bounty hunter Greedo (Paul Blake/Maria De Aragon) in the Mos Eisley cantina. In the original version of this scene, Han shoots Greedo dead. Later versions are edited so that Greedo attempts to fire at Han first. Director George Lucas altered the scene to give Solo more justification for acting in self-defense. Many fans and commentators oppose the change, feeling it weakens Solo's characterization. The controversy is referenced in the 2018 film Solo: A Star Wars Story.

Hera Syndulla General Hera Syndulla is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise, voiced by Vanessa Marshall in the animated series Star Wars Rebels, The Freemaker Adventures, Forces of Destiny, and The Bad Batch, and the video game Star Wars: Squadrons, and portrayed by Mary Elizabeth Winstead in the live-action miniseries Ahsoka. The Twi'lek daughter of Ryloth freedom fighter Cham Syndulla, and widowed lover of Jedi knight Kanan Jarrus/Caleb Dume, with whom she has a son, Jacen Syndulla, General Syndulla is an expert pilot and central figure in the formation of the Rebel Alliance in its fight against the Galactic Empire after leading a small rebel insurgency on the planet of Lothal that gained the attention of Senator Bail Organa. Marshall's portrayal of Hera Syndulla has received a universally positive critical reception.

Iden Versio Iden Versio is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. She is the commander of Inferno Squad, a group of elite Imperial soldiers, who eventually defects to the Rebel Alliance. Iden is the player character of the 2017 video game Star Wars Battlefront II, an action shooter developed by EA DICE, in collaboration with Criterion Games and Motive Studios. She serves as the main protagonist of the game's single-player campaign, in which she is voiced and portrayed via motion capture by Janina Gavankar.

Iego An Outer Rim planet that harbors flying creatures called Xandu and medicinally important plants called Reeska. Iego is surrounded by 1000 moons and at least one of these, named Millius Prime, is home to a race called the Angels.

Jabba the Hutt Jabba Desilijic Tiure, more commonly known as Jabba the Hutt, is a fictional character and major antagonist in the Star Wars franchise. Created by George Lucas, Jabba is voiced by Larry Ward with several puppeteers inside a one-ton puppet portraying him in Return of the Jedi. He was originally supposed to first appear in Star Wars (1977) as a stop motion character with Declan Mulholland as his stand-in. Jabba was later added into the film as a CGI character when it was re-released in Special Edition in 1997. He also appears in the prequel movie The Phantom Menace. The character is a large slug-like creature based on annelid worms, but he was originally designed as an apelike figure. In the films, Jabba is a powerful crime lord on the planet Tatooine who is of the Hutt species. He is obese and often has slave girls chained to his throne. He places a bounty on smuggler Han Solo after Solo loses his cargo and sends several bounty hunters to capture him. After Darth Vader freezes Solo in carbonite, bounty hunter Boba Fett delivers him to Jabba, who puts Solo on display in his palace. Later, Princess Leia comes to save Han but is captured by Jabba, who turns her into a slave. While Luke Skywalker comes to rescue them, Leia chokes Jabba to death by wrapping the chain connected to her around his neck and pulling it tightly. Outside of the main films, Jabba first appears in the Marvel comics with the appearance of a slim humanoid with a walrus-like face. Jabba has received generally positive reviews from critics, and his name has entered common parlance as being synonymous with negative qualities such as morbid obesity, corruption, and corporate greed.

Jango Fett Jango Fett is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise, created by George Lucas. He first appeared as the secondary antagonist of the 2002 film Star Wars: Episode II – Attack of the Clones, played by Temuera Morrison. The character is a Mandalorian bounty hunter, regarded as the best mercenary in the galaxy of his era, and the father of Boba Fett, an unmodified clone of Jango whom he kept as payment for serving as the genetic template of the Galactic Republic's clone army and raised as his son. After Jango's death at the hands of Mace Windu, Boba follows in his father's footsteps, using his father's armor, equipment, and ship, Slave I, to become a successful bounty hunter in his own right. The animated series The Bad Batch further reveals two daughters of Jango to have been grown alongside Boba, without Jango's knowledge: Omega and Emerie Karr. Outside of the films, the character appears in a number of canonical and non-canonical Star Wars works, such as comic books and video games, which depict him as an antihero rather than a villainous figure, and explore his past as both a bounty hunter and Mandalorian warrior. Since the release of Attack of the Clones, Jango Fett has become a popular figure within the Star Wars fanbase, gaining a cult following, with Morrison later portraying Jango's son Boba in the Disney+ series The Mandalorian and The Book of Boba Fett.

Jar Jar Binks Jar Jar Binks is a fictional character of the Gungan race from the Star Wars saga created by George Lucas. Jar Jar appears throughout the Star Wars prequel trilogy – as a major character in Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace and with a supporting role in Star Wars: Episode II - Attack of the Clones and Star Wars: Episode III - Revenge of the Sith – as well as having a role in the television series Star Wars: The Clone Wars. The first fully computer-generated supporting character in a live-action film, he has been voiced by Ahmed Best in most of his appearances, who also acted out the character with prosthetics prior to the CGI work. The last mention of Binks is in the 2017 canonical novel Aftermath: Empire's End. Jar Jar's primary role in Episode I was to provide comic relief for the audience. He was met with overwhelming dislike from both audiences and critics, and has been recognized as one of the most hated characters in Star Wars and the history of film in general, with some commentators arguing that the character was based on stereotypes of black people, especially Jamaicans. The hate affected Best personally, who rejected the idea that the character was based on racist stereotypes. In 2010, Adult Swim released Robot Chicken: Star Wars Episode III which included a sketch where Binks, voiced by Ahmed Best himself, revealed that he was a Sith Lord throughout the six films, and had manipulated Palpatine himself. Five years later, in 2015, a Reddit user posted a fan theory that Jar Jar was originally going to be revealed as a manipulative villain, but this plot point was removed due to the character's unpopularity. The theory gained popularity on the internet, and was even encouraged by Best, who implied that it could have been partially true. The character's reception changed as he was championed by fans who had seen the prequels at the time of their release as children. He has also been defended by members of the prequels' production team. Since then Ahmed Best felt grateful for the support and admiration.

Jedha Cold desert moon, and a sacred place for believers in the Force. A source of kyber crystals used for lightsabers and the Death Star's primary weapon. It is also the first location on which the Death Star's destructive capability is tested.Rogue One's director, Gareth Edwards, has described the location as "a Mecca or Jerusalem within the Star Wars world". It is also a homonym for Jeddah, the principal gateway to Mecca.

Jyn Erso Jyn Erso is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise, portrayed by English actress Felicity Jones in the 2016 film Rogue One: A Star Wars Story. Jyn aids the Rebel Alliance in a desperate attempt to steal the plans to the Death Star, a weapon of the Galactic Empire with enough power to destroy an entire planet. The character was introduced as a child in the 2016 prequel novel Catalyst by James Luceno.

Kamino Ocean planet located outside the main galaxy, where cloning technology is developed and the Clone Army is created and trained. Obi-Wan Kenobi discovers that the planet is missing from the Jedi archives; it is later revealed to have been deleted as a part of the Sith plot to start the Clone Wars, and take over the galaxy.

Kanan Jarrus Kanan Jarrus (born Caleb Dume) is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise, voiced by Freddie Prinze Jr. He is featured as one of the main characters of the animated series Star Wars Rebels (2014–2018) and related works. His Force spirit also appears as a disembodied voice in the film The Rise of Skywalker (2019), while a young Caleb Dume makes appearances in the seventh season of The Clone Wars (2020), The Bad Batch (2021) and Tales of the Jedi (2022). In the Star Wars universe, Kanan is a Jedi Padawan who survived the Great Jedi Purge after his master, Depa Billaba, sacrificed herself to save him. From that point onwards, Kanan lived most of his life on the run, hiding from the Galactic Empire, before eventually meeting Hera Syndulla and joining the Ghost crew as its de facto leader. Although he initially keeps his Force abilities hidden from his comrades, he re-embraces his Jedi role after meeting Ezra Bridger, whom he begins training in the Jedi arts, while also attempting to complete his own training and become a Jedi Knight. Later, Kanan and his crew join the Rebel Alliance to assist them in their fight against the Empire. While Kanan ultimately sacrifices himself to save his friends, his legacy lives on through their memories of him, as well as his and Hera's son, Jacen Syndulla.

Kessel A mining planet that has been fought over by crime lords for its valuable Spice. A fissure vent beneath the spice mines served as a source of astatic coaxium, an element that could be refined into hyperfuel for starships.

Kijimi A frigid mountainous planet. It was the homeworld of Zorii Bliss, leader of the smuggling gang known as the Spice Runners of Kijimi. It is later destroyed by the Xyston-class Star Destroyer Derriphan of the Sith Eternal's fleet, the Final Order, as a show of force for the rest of the galaxy.

Kuiil Kuiil is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise who first appeared in the first season of the Disney+ television series The Mandalorian. An alien of the Ugnaught species, Kuiil is a former indentured servant of the Galactic Empire living in solitude when he encounters the show's title character and assists him in seeking and protecting a young alien known as "The Child". Kuiil is portrayed as wise, patient, and hard-working, with a high level of mechanical skills and a gruff but ultimately kind-hearted personality. The voice of Kuiil was performed by Nick Nolte, who completed his recordings for all the character's dialogue in a single afternoon. Kuiil's performance was done by Misty Rosas, who during filming wore an animatronic face mask created by Legacy Effects. Kuiil's face was brought to life through animatronics and puppetry, with its electronics and wires concealed in the backpack and pockets of Kuiil's costume. Three puppeteers controlled the mask's mouth and eyebrows off-camera as Rosas performed her scenes, attempting to match the character's facial movements to Nolte's vocal tracks. The process often proved challenging, particularly when the puppeteers missed signals made by Rosas during dimly-lit scenes. Kuiil's dynamic with the bounty hunter droid IG-11 reflects a parenting theme prevalent among multiple characters throughout the first season of The Mandalorian, and Kuiil's reprogramming of the droid from hunter to protector drew nature versus nurture discussions among reviewers. Kuiil has been received positively by reviewers and fans alike. He has been described as a fan favorite, with several reviews calling him the best character on the show, and his signature line "I have spoken" became one of the better-known and best-liked lines of dialogue from the series.

Kylo Ren Kylo Ren (real name Ben Solo) is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. He first appeared as the main antagonist of Star Wars: The Force Awakens (2015), in which he is portrayed by Adam Driver. Driver reprised his role in the sequel films Star Wars: The Last Jedi (2017) and Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker (2019), with the character also appearing in Star Wars Resistance (2018–2020), The Lego Star Wars Holiday Special (2020) and Lego Star Wars: Terrifying Tales (2021). Ren is the son of original Star Wars trilogy characters Han Solo and Princess Leia Organa. Though initially trained as a Jedi by his uncle Luke Skywalker, Ben was seduced to the dark side of the Force by Supreme Leader Snoke, and aspires to be as powerful as his grandfather, the Sith Lord Darth Vader / Anakin Skywalker. Throughout the sequel trilogy, Kylo Ren serves as the master of the Knights of Ren, a warlord of the First Order, and both an adversary of and romantic interest for Rey. After he kills Snoke and usurps his position as Supreme Leader, Ren discovers that he shares a connection with Rey called a 'Force dyad' and is eventually redeemed when he sacrifices himself to help Rey defeat the revived Emperor Palpatine. In addition to appearing in the films and television series, Kylo Ren has also appeared in related media and merchandising. Driver's performance has received acclaim from critics and fans. For his performance in The Force Awakens, Driver won the Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actor, making him the first Star Wars actor since Alec Guinness to win the award. Driver received a second nomination in the same category for his performance in The Rise of Skywalker.

Lando Calrissian Landonis Balthazar "Lando" Calrissian III is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise created by George Lucas. He is introduced in The Empire Strikes Back (1980) as a friend of Han Solo and the administrator of Cloud City on the planet Bespin. Prior to the events of the film, Lando made a career as a gambler, con artist, playboy, mining engineer, and businessman, and was the owner of the Millennium Falcon until losing the ship to Han in a bet. In the film, when Cloud City is threatened by the Galactic Empire, Lando reluctantly betrays Han to Darth Vader, but later helps Han's friends escape from the Empire. In Return of the Jedi (1983), after becoming a general in the Rebel Alliance, Lando helps rescue Han from Jabba the Hutt and leads the attack on the second Death Star. Lando is portrayed by Billy Dee Williams in the original trilogy, as well as the sequel film The Rise of Skywalker (2019). Donald Glover portrays a younger Lando in the standalone film Solo: A Star Wars Story (2018), which depicts the beginning of his relationship with Han. Lando also appears in novels, comics and video games. The character has become one of the franchise's most popular, with Billy Dee Williams' performance receiving praise. Donald Glover's performance in Solo was also well received, being hailed as one of the film's highlights; a further film starring Glover as the character, tentatively entitled Lando, is in development as of December 2023.

List of Star Wars Rebels episodes Star Wars Rebels is an American 3D CGI animated television series produced by Lucasfilm and Lucasfilm Animation. Beginning fourteen years after Revenge of the Sith and five years before A New Hope, Rebels takes place during an era when the Galactic Empire is securing its grip on the galaxy. Imperial forces are hunting down the last of the Jedi Knights while a fledgling rebellion against the Empire is taking form, with the series following the crew of the Ghost. The series was previewed throughout August 2014 with a set of shorts introducing the main characters before the television film pilot episode premiered on Disney Channel on October 3, 2014. The regular series premiered on Disney XD on October 13, 2014. The second season started on June 20, 2015, and the third season premiered on September 24, 2016. The two-part season three finale aired on March 25, 2017. The fourth and final season premiered on October 16, 2017, with the two-part episode "Heroes of Mandalore", and continued to air until November 13, 2017 taking a winter break and preparations for the release of the film Star Wars: The Last Jedi. The series picked up on February 19, 2018, Disney XD then released two episodes a week, airing the final two episodes on March 5, 2018. A total of 75 episodes were aired, with the narrative of the series being continued in the 2023 live-action miniseries Ahsoka.

Luke Skywalker Luke Skywalker is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise created by George Lucas. He is the protagonist of the original film trilogy and also appears in the sequel trilogy. Raised as a farmer on the planet Tatooine, Luke joins the Rebel Alliance and becomes a pivotal figure in the struggle against the Galactic Empire. He trains as a Jedi under Obi-Wan Kenobi and Yoda, and eventually confronts his father, the Sith Lord Darth Vader. Years later, Luke trains his nephew Ben Solo and mentors the scavenger Rey. Luke is the twin brother of Leia Organa. The character is portrayed by Mark Hamill in six films and two television series. Hamill won the 1980 Saturn Award for Best Actor for his portrayal of Luke in The Empire Strikes Back. Luke also appears in animated series, novels, comics, and video games.

Mace Windu Mace Windu is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise, portrayed by Samuel L. Jackson in the prequel trilogy. Jackson later reprised the role with voice only in the 2008 animated film Star Wars: The Clone Wars and the 2019 sequel film The Rise of Skywalker, whilst Terrence C. Carson voiced the character in other projects, such as The Clone Wars animated television series. The character also appears in various canon and non-canon Star Wars media like books, comics, and video games. In the fictional Star Wars universe, Mace Windu is portrayed as a Jedi Master who sits on the High Council during the final years of the Galactic Republic. He is notable for wielding a unique purple-bladed lightsaber, and is regarded as one of the most powerful Jedi of his time, second only to Yoda. He is a Jedi General of the Grand Army of the Republic during the Clone Wars, even as the conflict leads him to question his most firmly held beliefs. Windu develops an antagonistic relationship with Anakin Skywalker, due to his initial opposition to him being trained as a Jedi and later for denying him the rank of Jedi Master, stemming from Anakin's unstable nature and tendency to allow emotions to cloud his judgement. This contributes to Anakin ultimately betraying the Jedi and turning to the dark side of the Force after helping the Sith Lord Darth Sidious kill Windu.

Malachor Desolate Sith world and site of two major battles thousands of year apart: one involving the Scourge of Malachor, the other between Darth Maul, several Rebels, Darth Vader, and several Inquisitors.

Mandalore Outer Rim planet that is the homeworld of the Mandalorians torn by wars between Mandalorians and Jedi and eventually purged by the Empire, scattering the few Mandalorians throughout the galaxy (including Bo-Katan). Mandalore has one moon, Concordia, which is fully inhabited.

Maz Kanata Maz Kanata is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. Introduced in the 2015 film Star Wars: The Force Awakens, she is a computer-generated character voiced and performed through motion capture by Lupita Nyong'o. Maz, a former pirate and smuggler, is more than 1,000 years old and manages an interstellar tavern in a castle on the fictional planet Takodana. While Maz's small role in the trilogy has been criticized, Nyong'o's performance and the technical aspects of the character have been praised by critics. For her performance in The Force Awakens, Nyong'o was nominated for a Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actress.

Migs Mayfeld Migs Mayfeld is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise who appears in the Disney+ television series The Mandalorian. He is a former Imperial sharpshooter turned mercenary who leads a crew in an attempt to rescue a prisoner from a New Republic prison transport ship. His team includes the show's protagonist, "The Mandalorian", with whom he repeatedly clashes and ultimately betrays. The Mandalorian outsmarts him, resulting in Mayfeld's arrest and imprisonment, though he is later released so that he can aid the Mandalorian's efforts to rescue Grogu. As a result, the character evolves from a minor antagonist to an ally of the Mandalorian, with whom he eventually makes amends during their mission. Mayfeld is portrayed by actor and comedian Bill Burr, who was not a fan of Star Wars and repeatedly publicly mocked the franchise and its fans before he accepted the role. The Mandalorian creator Jon Favreau offered the part to Burr, believing his past criticism of the franchise would make his casting that much more amusing. Several reviewers have noted that Mayfeld's sardonic personality and hard-edged sense of humor are similar to Burr's real-life comedic style. Burr was extremely impressed with the filming of The Mandalorian, complimenting the technical aspects of filming as well as the writing style of the series. The character of Mayfeld received a generally positive response from reviewers, with many complimenting Burr's performance and the humor the character brought to the series. Reviewers critical of Mayfeld felt the character was flat, underdeveloped, or too incompetent as a mercenary. Mayfeld received a more positive response for his appearance in second season episode "Chapter 15: The Believer", which explored his character in more depth. Burr received a significant amount of mock outrage from fans for a scene in "Chapter 6: The Prisoner", in which he dropped Grogu, the show's hugely popular breakout character.

Moff Gideon Moff Gideon () is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise who first appeared in the Disney+ television series The Mandalorian, where he is the main antagonist of its first three seasons. Gideon is the leader of a remnant of the fallen Galactic Empire and wielder of the Darksaber responsible for the Purge of Mandalore, who attempts to capture the young Force sensitive child Grogu, who is being protected by the title character of the series, planning on using Grogu's blood to imbue numerous clones of himself with Force sensitivity. Gideon is portrayed by Giancarlo Esposito. He was recruited for the part by The Mandalorian creator and showrunner Jon Favreau, who had previously worked with Esposito on several projects. Gideon is portrayed as a dangerous and fierce man who, "seems to know everything about everyone", and does not hesitate to kill anyone to get what he wants, including his men. The character did not make his first appearance until the penultimate episode of the first season but played a larger role in the second season with five episodes. He returns for the two last episodes of the third season. Esposito has rejected simple classifications of Gideon as a "good" or "bad" character, noting that he is attempting to restore order to a lawless galaxy and could arguably be seen as a "savior for the galaxy". Gideon's all-black costume has been compared to that of Star Wars character Darth Vader, and reviewers have noted similarities in their personalities and behavior as well. Moff Gideon has been received positively by reviewers and fans. Esposito was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actor in a Drama Series for his performance in the first season, while also earning a nomination for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series for the second.

Mon Mothma Mon Mothma is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise, primarily portrayed by Genevieve O'Reilly. Introduced as the leader of the Rebel Alliance in Return of the Jedi (1983), in which she is played by Caroline Blakiston, Mon has become a prominent character in subsequent prequel media, including the anthology film Rogue One (2016), the animated series The Clone Wars (2010) and Star Wars Rebels (2017), and the live-action television series Andor (2022–present). The character also appeared in the 2023 live-action television series Ahsoka, again portrayed by O'Reilly, her first time playing the character in sequel media set after Return of the Jedi. O'Reilly's portrayal of Mon Mothma has received a universally positive critical reception, and Blakiston's initial cameo appearance as the character has become an Internet meme.

Mortis Planet existing in the spiritual realm within the Force, with a wall surrounding it, home to the three near-omnipotent Force wielders known only in the Jedi Archives as the Mortis Gods. It is said that "the planet is a conduit through which the Force flows."[88]

List of Star Wars films The Star Wars franchise involves multiple live-action and animated films. The film series started with a trilogy set in medias res that was later expanded to a trilogy of trilogies, known as the "Skywalker Saga". The 1977 self-titled film, was followed by the sequels The Empire Strikes Back (1980) and Return of the Jedi (1983), these films form the original trilogy. 32 years later, the Star Wars prequel trilogy was released, consisting of Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace (1999), Star Wars: Episode II - Attack of the Clones (2002), and Star Wars: Episode III - Revenge of the Sith (2005). After creator George Lucas sold Lucasfilm to Disney in 2012, a Star Wars sequel trilogy consisting of Episodes VII through IX was released, consisting of Star Wars: The Force Awakens (2015), Star Wars: The Last Jedi (2017), and Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker (2019). The first three spin-off films produced were the made-for-television Star Wars Holiday Special (1978), The Ewok Adventure (1984) and Ewoks: The Battle for Endor (1985). Following Disney's 2012 acquisition of the franchise, these earlier films were dropped from the official canon, but the theatrical animated film Star Wars: The Clone Wars (2008) and its television series continuation retain their canonical status. Two standalone films were produced and released between the sequel trilogy films: Rogue One (2016) and Solo: A Star Wars Story (2018), both set between the original and prequel trilogies. A yearslong hiatus began in late 2019, during which numerous films were announced and often shelved. Five officially announced projects were reputedly being developed as of early 2024, with a Mandalorian spin-off movie helmed by Jon Favreau reportedly slotted for release in May 2026. The combined box office revenue of the films amounts to over US$10 billion, and it is currently the third-highest-grossing film franchise. The major live-action releases (including all the films within the Skywalker Saga) were nominated for Academy Awards. The original film was nominated for most of the major categories, including Best Picture, Best Director, Best Original Screenplay, and Best Supporting Actor for Alec Guinness (who played Obi-Wan Kenobi), while all theatrical live-action films have been nominated for particular categories. Several official Star Wars television series have also been released, all now on Disney+. Skywalker Saga The main Star Wars film series is a trilogy of subtrilogies; as it neared completion, Lucasfilm began to refer to it as the "Skywalker Saga". It was released beginning with the original trilogy (Episodes IV, V and VI, 1977–1983), followed by the prequel trilogy (Episodes I, II and III, 1999–2005) and the sequel trilogy (Episodes VII, VIII and IX, 2015–2019). The first film released, Star Wars (1977), is the fourth film chronologically and was later subtitled Episode IV – A New Hope. The saga begins chronologically with Episode I – The Phantom Menace (1999) and concludes with Episode IX – The Rise of Skywalker (2019). The story follows each generation of the Force-sensitive Skywalker family and their struggle against Palpatine, an evil Sith Lord known as Darth Sidious. The prequel trilogy focuses on Anakin Skywalker's training as a Jedi and his fall to the dark side as Darth Vader. The original trilogy follows his children, Luke and Leia, as they join forces with Han Solo and the Rebel Alliance against Vader and Palpatine's Empire. The sequel trilogy features Kylo Ren (Ben Solo)—Leia and Han's son and Luke's former Jedi apprentice—who fell to the dark side and seeks to rule the galaxy with Rey, Palpatine's granddaughter and Luke and Leia's last Jedi apprentice. Each episodic film begins with an opening crawl, accompanied by the main Star Wars theme by John Williams, who composed each film's score. Following their initial theatrical releases, franchise creator George Lucas made multiple rounds of retroactive changes to the films of the original trilogy (and to a lesser extent, the prequels). Standalone films As Lucas was outlining a trilogy of trilogies, he also imagined making additional movies unrelated to the Skywalker Saga. The first theatrical films set outside the main episodic series were the Ewok spin-off films Caravan of Courage: An Ewok Adventure (1984) and Ewoks: The Battle for Endor (1985), the first of which was screened internationally after being produced for television. After the conclusion of his then-six-episode saga in 2005, Lucas returned to spin-offs in the form of television series. An animated film, The Clone Wars (2008), was released as a pilot to a TV series of the same name. An anthology series set between the main episodes entered development in parallel to the production of the sequel trilogy, described by Disney chief financial officer (CFO) Jay Rasulo as origin stories. The first entry, Rogue One: A Star Wars Story (2016), tells the story of the rebels who steal the Death Star plans directly before Episode IV. Solo: A Star Wars Story (2018) focuses on Han's backstory, also featuring Chewbacca and Lando Calrissian. Animated film The Clone Wars (2008) Preceding the airing of the animated TV series in late 2008, the theatrical feature Star Wars: The Clone Wars was compiled from episodes "almost an afterthought." It reveals that Anakin trained an apprentice between Attack of the Clones and Revenge of the Sith; the series explains Padawan Ahsoka Tano's absence from the latter film. The film and series exist in the same level of canon as the episodic and anthology films. Live-action films Before selling Lucasfilm to Disney in 2012, and parallel to his development of a sequel trilogy, George Lucas and original trilogy co-screenwriter Lawrence Kasdan started development on a standalone film about a young Han Solo. In February 2013, Disney CEO Bob Iger made public the development of a Kasdan film and Entertainment Weekly reported that it would focus on Han Solo. Disney CFO Jay Rasulo has described the standalone films as origin stories. Lucasfilm president Kathleen Kennedy confirmed that there was "no attempt being made to carry characters (from the standalone films) in and out of the saga episodes." The standalone films are subtitled "A Star Wars Story". Rogue One: A Star Wars Story (2016) Rogue One is set directly before Episode IV: A New Hope and focuses on the eponymous group of rebels who obtain the plans to the Death Star. Its laser was developed by scientist Galen Erso (played by Mads Mikkelsen) after the Empire forcibly abducted him, separating him from his daughter Jyn. Galen secretly sends a defecting Imperial pilot, Bodhi Rook, to deliver a message warning of the weapon's existence and revealing its weakness to his rebel friend Saw Gerrera. Under the false promise of her father's liberation, Jyn agrees to help Rebel Alliance intelligence officer Cassian Andor and his droid K-2SO retrieve the message from Saw, now the paranoid leader of an extremist cell of rebels. The idea for the movie came from John Knoll, the chief creative officer of Industrial Light & Magic. In May 2014, Lucasfilm announced Gareth Edwards as the director of an anthology film, with Gary Whitta writing the first draft for a release on December 16, 2016. The film's title was revealed to be Rogue One, with Chris Weitz rewriting the script, and Felicity Jones in the starring role. Ben Mendelsohn and Diego Luna also play new characters, with James Earl Jones returning to voice Darth Vader. Edwards stated, "It comes down to a group of individuals who don't have magical powers that have to somehow bring hope to the galaxy." The film was the first to feature characters introduced in animated Star Wars TV series, namely The Clone Wars' Saw Gerrera, portrayed by Forest Whitaker in the film. The movie received generally positive reviews, with its performances, action sequences, soundtrack, visual effects and darker tone being praised. The film grossed over US$500 million worldwide within a week of its release. Solo: A Star Wars Story (2018) Solo, the second anthology film, focuses on Han Solo about 10 years before A New Hope. After an escape attempt from his Imperial-occupied home planet of Corellia goes wrong, a young Han vows to return to rescue his girlfriend Qi'ra. Han "Solo" joins the Imperial Academy; however, he is expelled for his reckless behavior. Han and his newfound Wookiee friend Chewbacca resort to a criminal life, mentored by veteran smuggler Tobias Beckett. After angering gangster Dryden Vos, for whom Qi'ra now works, Han and his company's lives depend on pulling a heist for him. Without a ship to travel, they hire Lando Calrissian, the captain and owner of the Millennium Falcon. A twist ending acknowledges Maul's survival of The Phantom Menace, as previously explored by animated series. Before selling Lucasfilm to Disney, George Lucas had hired Star Wars original trilogy veteran Lawrence Kasdan to write a film about a young Han Solo. The film stars Alden Ehrenreich as a young Han Solo, Joonas Suotamo as Chewbacca (after serving as a double for the character in The Force Awakens and The Last Jedi), Donald Glover as Lando Calrissian, Emilia Clarke as Qi'ra, and Woody Harrelson as Beckett. Lucasfilm originally hired Phil Lord and Christopher Miller to direct, but they were fired during principal photography, and replaced by Ron Howard. Future In mid-2018, Lucasfilm confirmed that multiple anthology films were in development, with their release following a hiatus after 2019's The Rise of Skywalker. Following multiple delays, dates in December 18, 2026 and December 17, 2027 were reserved for Star Wars films. In May 2023, Kennedy said future Star Wars films would come out "when they're ready", citing the 3–4 year interim of more recent James Bond films. In May 2020, Taika Waititi was officially announced to write and direct a live-action Star Wars film. Three further live-action films were officially announced at April 2023's Star Wars Celebration, to be helmed by Sharmeen Obaid-Chinoy, Dave Filoni, and James Mangold. Kennedy said upcoming films would include the trademark opening crawl. In January 2024, a Mandalorian film from Jon Favreau was announced. Additionally, Kennedy stated in May 2022 that "There's a couple of that we've been in conversation with ... that I'm hoping will" oversee future films in the way that Favreau and Filoni have done for Star Wars television series. The Mandalorian & Grogu (2026) In 2019, then–Walt Disney Studios CCO Alan Horn stated that if The Mandalorian was successful, a feature film spin-off would be considered. A fourth season of the TV series was written from May 2022 to February 2023. Pre-production occurred in April 2023. Filming for the season was scheduled to begin in September, but was delayed due to the 2023 Hollywood labor disputes. In January 2024, it was announced that series creator Jon Favreau would write and direct a theatrical film based on the series (separate from Filoni's upcoming film), titled The Mandalorian & Grogu. It was unclear if the fourth season of the TV series would still be made because there was potential for future Mandalorian stories to instead be told through theatrical sequel films if the first film was a box-office success. Filming was expected to begin later in 2024 as the first Star Wars film to enter production since The Rise of Skywalker. In February 2024, Disney CEO Bob Iger announced that the film is aiming for a 2026 release, although specifics were not given at the time. In April 2024, it was announced that the film would be released on May 22, 2026. Untitled Sharmeen Obaid-Chinoy film (TBA) In October 2022, The Hollywood Reporter reported that after a two-week writers' room in July (which included Patrick Somerville, Rayna McClendon, Andy Greenwald, and maybe Dave Filoni), Damon Lindelof and Justin Britt-Gibson were co-writing a Star Wars film, with Ms. Marvel director Sharmeen Obaid-Chinoy attached as director. THR reported that according to its sources, "the project is intended as a stand-alone but in success could lead to more movies", taking place after the sequel trilogy and possibly featuring some of its characters. In March 2023, it was reported that Lindelof and Britt-Gibson had left the project in mid-February and that Steven Knight was hired to replace them as screenwriter. Filming was reportedly set to begin in February 2024. At April 2023's Star Wars Celebration, Kennedy officially announced a Sharmeen Obaid-Chinoy-directed movie, with Daisy Ridley returning as Rey as she constructs a new Jedi Order 15 years after the events of The Rise of Skywalker. She reportedly may be a supporting character in the vein of Jedi Masters Obi-Wan Kenobi and Luke Skywalker in the original and sequel trilogies, respectively. Untitled Dave Filoni film (TBA) In December 2020, it was revealed that The Mandalorian and its related series were planned to culminate in a "climactic story event". At Star Wars Celebration in 2023, it was announced that Dave Filoni would make his live-action feature directorial debut with a film set in the New Republic era, connecting storylines that began with The Mandalorian, The Book of Boba Fett, Ahsoka, and Skeleton Crew. Untitled James Mangold film (TBA) In April 2023, during Star Wars Celebration Europe IV, Lucasfilm announced that James Mangold would write and direct a Star Wars film whose story "will go back to the dawn of the Jedi" and explore the origins of The Force, set around 25,000 years before the events of A New Hope. It is set to be the start of a new era set within Star Wars timeline, dubbed Dawn of the Jedi. The film has been described as a "Cecil B. DeMille-style biblical epic.", with Mangold citing The Ten Commandments as a major inspiration for the film. Mangold was offered the project during production of Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny. Mangold confirmed shortly afterwards that he had begun developing the film alongside his screenplay for the DC Universe Swamp Thing film, and was uncertain which project would move forward first following his Bob Dylan biopic A Complete Unknown. In September 2023, David S. Goyer revealed that he had written a treatment for an unproduced Star Wars film about the origins of the Jedi Order. Untitled Taika Waititi film (TBA) On May 4, 2020, Taika Waititi (who directed the first-season finale of The Mandalorian and voiced IG-11) was officially announced to direct a Star Wars film from a screenplay he was co-writing with Krysty Wilson-Cairns. As of May 2022, his film was expected to be released before Rogue Squadron (originally scheduled for December 2023 prior to its delay), with Kennedy asserting that Waititi's film may be released in late 2023. In June 2022, Waititi agreed with Kennedy's view that the films should move into new territory in favor of origin stories, and stated he would continue writing the project while filming other projects. The movie was reportedly expected to be shot in Los Angeles. By March 2023, Waititi was also likely to appear in the film. The next month, Kennedy stated that Waititi was now writing the film alone. In early May, Deadline Hollywood reported that Waititi may begin filming the project in 2024. In September 2023, amidst rumors of the film's cancellation, it was revealed that it was still in development and that Waititi would resume writing the script after the conclusion of the 2023 Writers Guild of America strike. Lando (TBA) In 2018, while promoting Solo, Kathleen Kennedy expressed interest in making a spin-off film focusing on Lando Calrissian. Though it was specified that a project of that sort was not a priority at Lucasfilm. Around the same time, Donald Glover expressed similar interest in a Lando-centric film, suggesting it could take inspiration from the Steven Spielberg film Catch Me If You Can. At Disney Investor Day 2020, a Lando series was announced to be in development for Disney+, with Justin Simien acting as showrunner. In 2023, it was revealed that Simien would be replaced as showrunner by Donald Glover and his brother Stephen. Nearly two months later, Stephen Glover confirmed that the project was being redeveloped as a feature film. Rogue Squadron (TBA) On December 10, 2020, during Disney Investor Day, Wonder Woman (2017) director Patty Jenkins was announced as the director of a film titled Rogue Squadron, initially set to be released on December 22, 2023. According to the official Star Wars website, the film would "introduce a new generation of starfighter pilots as they earn their wings and risk their lives in a boundary-pushing, high-speed thrill-ride, and move the saga into the future era of the galaxy." According to Jenkins, the film would be an original story "with great influence from the games and the books". A script was being worked on as of December 2020, at which time, Wonder Woman 3's story was still being worked on. Matthew Robinson was hired to write Rogue Squadron in May 2021; late the next month, Jenkins revealed that the script was almost finished. On November 8, the film's production was delayed from 2022 due to Jenkins' busy schedule. A month later, Jenkins had left her planned Cleopatra film as director in order to focus on Rogue Squadron and Wonder Woman 3. Disney announced in April 2022 that the film was still set to be released in December 2023. Kathleen Kennedy stated in May that the film has been "pushed off to the side for the moment", with the script still being worked on and Waititi's film expected to be released first. On September 15, 2022, the film was confirmed to be taken off from Disney's release schedule, although in December Jenkins said she was actively working on it amid the apparent cancellation of Wonder Woman 3. In April 2023, Kennedy said the project could still happen either as a film or a television series. On March 13, 2024, Jenkins stated that she had signed a new contract with Lucasfilm to write and direct Rogue Squadron. Other future films Rian Johnson, the writer/director of The Last Jedi (2017), is confirmed to write and direct the first film of a new trilogy he was outlining as of early 2019 with Ram Bergman producing alongside Kennedy. It was said to differ from the Skywalker-focused films in favor of focusing on new characters and possibly a different era than the main film franchise. The project was considered to have been "back-burnered" by May 2022 due to Johnson's involvement with other projects, including the Knives Out franchise. Johnson indicated that he would make at least one more film in that series following Glass Onion before returning to Star Wars. In November 2022, Deadline Hollywood reported that Shawn Levy was in talks to direct a Star Wars film, following his work on Deadpool & Wolverine (2024) and the fifth and final season of Stranger Things. In September 2023, Levy revealed that development began, but has since been stalled due to the 2023 Writers Guild of America strike. In January 2024, it was reported that the fourth season of The Mandalorian would be reworked into theatrical sequel films if The Mandalorian & Grogu (2026) was a box-office success. Produced for television The first spin-off film (also the first sequel to be released) was a holiday TV special aired in 1978. Two live-action TV films created in the mid-1980s feature the Ewoks. Star Wars Holiday Special (1978) Produced for CBS in 1978, the Star Wars Holiday Special was a two-hour television special, in the format of a variety show. Stars of the original film and archive footage from the original Star Wars film appeared alongside celebrity guest stars in plot-related skits, musical numbers, and an animated segment, all loosely tied together by the premise of Chewbacca's family waiting for his arrival for the "Life Day" celebration on his home planet, Kashyyyk. The special is notorious for its extremely negative reception and was aired only once. Only the 11-minute animated sequence, which features the debut of bounty hunter Boba Fett, was positively received. Ewok films The Ewoks from Return of the Jedi were featured in two spin-off television films, The Ewok Adventure and Ewoks: The Battle for Endor. Both aired on ABC on the Thanksgiving weekends of 1984 and 1985, respectively, with at least the first also being given a limited international theatrical release. Warwick Davis reprised his debut role as the main Ewok, Wicket, in both. They are set between the events of The Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Jedi. Both films were released on VHS, LaserDisc, and on a double-feature DVD. Although based on stories written by George Lucas, they do not bear Star Wars in their titles, and were considered to exist in a lower level of canon than the episodic films. Following Disney's acquisition of the franchise, they were excluded from the canon. The Battle for Endor would be the last live-action Star Wars television project produced by Lucasfilm until 2019's The Mandalorian. The Ewok Adventure (1984) In a story by Lucas and a screenplay by Bob Carrau, the Towani family spaceship shipwrecks on the forest moon of Endor. While trying to repair their ship, the castaway family is split, when a giant creature known as the Gorax kidnaps the parents. Taking pity on the kids, a group of native Ewoks led by Wicket decides to help little Cindel Towani and her older brother Mace, rescue their parents. Among other stylistic choices making the film unique from the Star Wars episodes is the inclusion of a narrator. Ewoks: The Battle for Endor (1985) The sequel focuses on the Ewoks protecting their village from marauders led by the evil Lord Terak, who killed all the members of the Towani family except for Cindel, in search of a power battery. It was followed by the TV series Ewoks (1985–1987). Produced for Disney+ A Droid Story In December 2020, A Droid Story, an animated adventure film for Disney+ was announced. According to the official Star Wars Twitter, the "epic journey will introduce us to a new hero guided by R2-D2 and C-3PO."

Mustafar Volcanic planet and Sith world used by the Techno Union to mine for valuable materials. Hiding place of the Separatist Council during the final days of the Clone Wars, and the location of the duel between Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi that results in the former's disfigurement. During the Imperial Era, it is the location of Darth Vader's personal stronghold.In the VR game Vader Immortal, it is revealed that Mustafar was once forested and very populous, but was left devastated by an ancient battle. It later begins to slowly heal itself, and, by the time of The Rise of Skywalker, trees appear to have regrown on Mustafar's surface.

Nevarro A volcanic planet with black sands and lava flows, located in the Outer Rim Territories. Nevarro was a hub of the Bounty Hunter Guild as well as home to a Mandalorian covert in the early days of the New Republic.

Niamos A warm, sunny resort planet with pleasant beaches and calm waters that serves as a destination for outlaws to hide. Under Imperial occupation, it was where Cassian Andor was arrested by Imperial shoretroopers and given a six-year sentence.

Nien Nunb Nien Nunb is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. Introduced in the 1983 film Return of the Jedi, he was brought to life both as a puppet and a costumed actor during the film. Nunb was puppeteered by Mike Quinn and was portrayed by Richard Bonehill in wide shots. The character was voiced by Kipsang Rotich, a Kenyan student who spoke in his native Kalenjin, as well as in Kikuyu. Quinn and Rotich both returned for the role in the sequel trilogy, namely Star Wars: The Force Awakens (2015), Star Wars: The Last Jedi (2017), and Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker (2019). Within the fictional Star Wars universe, Nien Nunb is an arms dealer of the Sullustan species who joins the Rebel Alliance in fighting the evil Galactic Empire. His most notable feat is co-piloting the Millennium Falcon alongside Lando Calrissian during the Battle of Endor, where he helps to destroy the second Death Star. Three decades later, Nunb is a starfighter pilot in the Resistance and helps in the fight against the First Order, including the Battles of Starkiller Base, Crait, and Exegol, being killed during the latter. In the years since Return of the Jedi's release, the character went on to become a fan-favorite, and has made appearances in various works within the Star Wars Expanded Universe.

Obi-Wan Kenobi Obi-Wan Kenobi () is a character in the Star Wars franchise created by George Lucas. In the original film trilogy, he is a Jedi Master who trains Luke Skywalker in the ways of the Force. In the prequel trilogy, he mentors Luke's father, Anakin Skywalker. Obi-Wan is portrayed by Alec Guinness in the original trilogy and by Ewan McGregor in the prequel films. McGregor also plays the character in the television series Obi-Wan Kenobi. Guinness's performance in Star Wars (1977) earned him the Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actor, as well as a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor.

Obi-Wan Kenobi (miniseries) Obi-Wan Kenobi is an American space opera television miniseries produced by Lucasfilm for the streaming service Disney+. It is part of the Star Wars franchise. Set ten years after the Jedi Order was purged during the events of the film Star Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith (2005), the series follows surviving Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi who emerges from hiding to rescue the kidnapped Princess Leia from the Galactic Empire's Inquisitors. This brings Kenobi into conflict with his former apprentice, Darth Vader. Ewan McGregor stars as the title character, reprising his role from the Star Wars prequel trilogy. Co-stars such as Joel Edgerton, Bonnie Piesse, Jimmy Smits, Hayden Christensen (Vader), and Ian McDiarmid also reprise their prequel trilogy roles. The project originated as a spin-off film written by Hossein Amini and directed by Stephen Daldry, but it was reworked as a limited series following the commercial failure of the film Solo: A Star Wars Story (2018). McGregor was confirmed to be starring in the series in August 2019, and Deborah Chow was hired to direct all of the episodes a month later. Production was scheduled to begin in July 2020, but the series was put on hold in January 2020 because Lucasfilm was unsatisfied with the scripts. Joby Harold was hired to rewrite the series and serve as showrunner in April 2020, executive producing with Chow, McGregor, Kathleen Kennedy, and Michelle Rejwan. Additional casting took place in March 2021. Filming began by that May in Los Angeles, using StageCraft video wall technology, and wrapped by that September. Natalie Holt composed the original score, while Star Wars film composer John Williams wrote a new main theme for Kenobi that William Ross adapted for several scenes. Obi-Wan Kenobi premiered on May 27, 2022, with its first two episodes. The other four episodes were released weekly through June 22. The series received generally positive reviews from critics, with praise directed towards McGregor's performance, the action sequences, John Williams's new main theme, the character-driven narrative, and the series' emotional weight, although the writing received some criticism. It also received multiple accolades, including winning Best Limited Event Series for Streaming and Best Guest Starring Role on Television (for Christensen) at the 47th Saturn Awards, as well as a nomination for Outstanding Limited or Anthology Series at the 75th Primetime Emmy Awards. "Part I" Ten years after Order 66, when most of the Jedi Order were killed, reclusive former Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi is hiding in a cave on Tatooine, under the alias "Ben." He watches over a young Luke Skywalker, the son of his former apprentice-turned-enemy Anakin Skywalker, now living with his uncle and aunt, Owen and Beru Lars, despite Owen disliking Kenobi. Kenobi has also lost his connection to the Force, cannot communicate with the Force spirit of his former deceased master, Qui-Gon Jinn, and experiences nightmares from his past. The Inquisitors, led by the Grand Inquisitor, look for a Jedi named Nari on Tatooine. Reva Sevander, Third Sister of the Inquisitors, is also obsessed with finding Kenobi, who is widely believed to be dead. In an attempt to lure him, she hires bounty hunters to kidnap Princess Leia Organa from Alderaan. Nari tries to get help from Kenobi but is rejected and later hanged in the town. Kenobi agrees to rescue Leia after her adoptive father, Bail Organa, visits his home. "Part II" After tracking Leia's kidnappers to the planet Daiyu, Kenobi encounters con man Haja Estree, who pretends to be a Jedi. Haja directs Kenobi to Leia's location, where he defeats the kidnappers and rescues her. The Grand Inquisitor learns of their presence and puts the city on lockdown. Reva disobeys orders and places a new bounty on Kenobi, causing mercenaries around the city to target him and Leia. When Leia realizes they are after Kenobi, she loses trust in him and runs away. Escaping to a roof with mercenaries attempting to kill them, Leia jumps off and Kenobi saves her using the Force, regaining her trust. Haja directs them to an unguarded cargo port from which they can escape, but cannot stop Reva from following them. The Grand Inquisitor arrives to arrest Kenobi himself, but Reva stabs him with her lightsaber. As Kenobi and Leia escape, Reva reveals that Anakin, whom Kenobi believed to be dead, is still alive as Darth Vader. Elsewhere, Vader awakens in a bacta tank. "Part III" From his fortress on Mustafar, Vader instructs Reva to find Kenobi, promising to promote her to Grand Inquisitor if she succeeds. Kenobi and Leia's transport lands on the mining planet Mapuzo and they proceed to the rendezvous provided by Haja. Finding no one there, they take a ride on an Imperial transport. They are discovered and Imperial troops are sent to capture them, but they receive help from an Imperial officer, Tala, who is a member of the Path, an underground network that hides dissidents and outlaws hunted by the Empire. She escorts them to a secret subterranean passageway, but before they leave, Vader and the Inquisitors arrive and begin to harm innocent bystanders to lure Kenobi to reveal himself. Kenobi sends Leia and Tala ahead while he provides a distraction. He is eventually confronted by Vader, who overpowers Kenobi and burns him. Tala provides a distraction to save Kenobi, but Leia is captured by Reva. "Part IV" Having escaped Vader on Mapuzo, Kenobi and Tala arrive at a Path facility on Jabiim. Meanwhile, Leia, being held in Fortress Inquisitorius, the stronghold headquarters of the Inquisitors located on Nur, is interrogated by Reva for details on the Path. Kenobi and Tala plan to infiltrate the fortress to rescue Leia. Once inside, Kenobi discovers a trophy vault filled with the preserved corpses of Jedi who had been captured and killed, including a Youngling. They rescue Leia but Tala's cover is blown and their presence is revealed. They eventually escape with help from Path commander Roken and his guerilla troops. Vader, angered by the events, moves to kill Reva for her failure, but spares her when she reveals that a tracker was attached to Leia's companion droid, Lola, in anticipation of a rescue. "Part V" Vader reflects on lightsaber training he had with Kenobi prior to the Clone Wars as he tracks the Path network to Jabiim. Vader promotes Reva to Grand Inquisitor, who leads a siege on the Path facility, deactivating its escape doors. To stall for time, Kenobi speaks with Reva and deduces that she knows Vader's true identity from witnessing his massacre at the Jedi Temple on Coruscant when she was a Youngling. She reveals she wanted to gain Vader's favor to kill him for revenge. The facility is then breached, with Tala sacrificing herself to save Kenobi. Realizing they cannot win, Kenobi surrenders and is taken to Reva. He convinces Reva to kill Vader when she delivers Kenobi. Meanwhile, Leia opens the facility doors after removing Lola's tracker, allowing the Path to escape as Vader arrives at the docking bay. Reva uses this opportunity to try to kill Vader but is quickly overpowered after a brief duel and stabbed. She is left for dead as the original Grand Inquisitor arrives to reaffirm his status. As the Path network escapes, Reva finds Bail Organa's message on Kenobi's transmitter, revealing Luke's location on Tatooine. "Part VI" Reva arrives on Tatooine to find Luke, while Darth Vader and the Empire pursue the Path network. Kenobi decides to lure Vader away and confront him alone on a nearby planet, allowing the Path to safely escape. After regaining his full connection to the Force, Kenobi incapacitates Vader. Realizing Anakin has completely embraced his identity as Darth Vader, a saddened Kenobi leaves. After arriving at Luke's home, Reva is confronted by Owen and Beru. She subdues them and pursues Luke into the desert. After remembering Anakin's massacre of the Jedi Temple, she decides to return Luke to his family. Kenobi congratulates her for overcoming her trauma and liberating herself from the Dark Side. On Mustafar, a healed Vader abandons his search for Kenobi after his master, Emperor Palpatine, questions his motives and loyalty. Back on Alderaan, Leia finds new resolve in her duties as a princess. Kenobi visits the Organas and affirms that he will help them when needed. Returning to Tatooine, he resolves his conflict with Owen by agreeing to let Luke have a normal life and finally meets with Luke for the very first time. Having found inner peace, Obi-Wan is finally able to converse with the Force spirit of Qui-Gon Jinn.

Orson Krennic Director Orson Callan Krennic is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise, portrayed by Australian actor Ben Mendelsohn in the 2016 film Rogue One as the main antagonist. Krennic is the Director of Advanced Weapons Research for the Galactic Empire, and was introduced in the 2016 prequel novel Catalyst by James Luceno.

Padmé Amidala Padmé Amidala (née Naberrie) is a character in the Star Wars franchise created by George Lucas. She first appears in The Phantom Menace as the teenage queen of the fictional planet Naboo. After her reign, she becomes a member of the Galactic Senate. She secretly marries Anakin Skywalker, a Jedi Knight, and later dies while giving birth to the twins Luke Skywalker and Leia Organa. Anakin's fear of losing Padmé drives him toward the dark side of the Force, which eventually results in his transformation into Darth Vader. Natalie Portman portrays Padmé in all three films of the prequel trilogy. Catherine Taber, Grey DeLisle and Montana Norberg provide the character's voice in animated productions and video games.

Palpatine Sheev Palpatine is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise created by George Lucas. He first appeared in the 1980 film The Empire Strikes Back as The Emperor. The character is also known by his Sith name, Darth Sidious, which was first used in the novelization of the 1999 film The Phantom Menace. Palpatine is the main antagonist of the three film trilogies in the episodic Skywalker Saga. He is portrayed by Ian McDiarmid in all five episodes in which he physically appears. In the original trilogy, Palpatine is the emperor of the Galactic Empire and the master of Darth Vader. In the prequel trilogy, which chronicles his rise from senator to emperor, Palpatine orchestrates the invasion of his home planet Naboo in a plot to become Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic. He then masterminds the Clone Wars to turn the Republic into the Empire. Palpatine also destroys the Jedi Order and manipulates the Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker into becoming his apprentice, Vader. In The Rise of Skywalker (2019), the final film in the sequel trilogy, a resurrected Palpatine is revealed to be the grandfather of the trilogy's main protagonist, Rey. He is also the mastermind behind Snoke, whom he created to lead the First Order against the New Republic and seduce Skywalker's grandson, Ben Solo, into becoming Kylo Ren. The character's story was inspired by real-world examples of democratic backsliding during the rise and rule of dictators such as Julius Caesar, Napoleon Bonaparte, and Adolf Hitler. Since the release of the original trilogy, Palpatine has become a widely recognized symbol of evil in popular culture. Since the prequel trilogy, he has been a symbol of sinister deception and the subversion of democracy. In addition to the films, Palpatine appears in various Star Wars media, including Clone Wars (2003–2005), The Clone Wars (2008–14, 2020), Rebels (2014–2018), The Bad Batch (2021–2024), Obi-Wan Kenobi (2022) and Tales of the Jedi (2022–), all of which take place before the original trilogy.

Paz Vizsla Paz Vizsla is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. He first appeared in the first season of the Disney+ television series The Mandalorian as a member of the same tribe of Mandalorian warriors in service of the Armorer as the titular character, with whom Vizsla initially clashes with but later assists in repelling a remnant of the Galactic Empire. The two had another altercation in the spin-off series The Book of Boba Fett over ownership of the Darksaber, a legendary lightsaber forged by Paz's ancestor, Tarre Vizsla. He then returned in the third season of The Mandalorian, in which he dies protecting Bo-Katan Kryze. Encased in physically imposing Beskar armor, Paz Vizsla is a heavy infantry warrior who uses a large, minigun-like blaster as well as a jet pack. Physically portrayed by Tait Fletcher, a stunt performer and former mixed martial artist, the character was voiced by Jon Favreau, the creator and showrunner of The Mandalorian; Favreau previously voiced Pre Vizsla, another member of House Vizsla, in the animated television series Star Wars: The Clone Wars. In-universe, Vizsla is the name of one of the largest Mandalorian clans. Paz Vizsla has received a positive response from fans and reviewers. Action figures and other merchandise of the character have been produced and sold. The character's name was initially misspelled as Paz Vizla onscreen and in marketing materials for the first season of The Mandalorian, before being corrected for the character's reappearance in The Book of Boba Fett.

Poe Dameron Poe Dameron is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. Introduced in the 2015 film Star Wars: The Force Awakens, he is portrayed by Oscar Isaac. Poe is an X-wing fighter pilot for the Resistance who inadvertently brings renegade stormtrooper Finn (John Boyega) and Jakku scavenger Rey (Daisy Ridley) into battle against the sinister First Order. The character is featured in The Force Awakens media and merchandising as well as an eponymous comic book series. He returns in the film's sequels The Last Jedi (2017) and The Rise of Skywalker (2019), the Disney XD animated series Star Wars Resistance (2018–2020) and the Disney+ television specials The Lego Star Wars Holiday Special (2020), Terrifying Tales (2021) and Summer Vacation (2022). Isaac's performance and the character have received positive reviews, with Poe's characterization being compared to that of Han Solo (Harrison Ford) in the original Star Wars film trilogy.

Princess Leia Princess Leia Organa is a fictional character and one of the main characters in the Star Wars franchise, portrayed by Carrie Fisher. Introduced in the original Star Wars film in 1977, Leia is a princess of the planet Alderaan, a member of the Imperial Senate and an agent of the Rebel Alliance. She thwarts the Sith Lord Darth Vader and helps bring about the destruction of the Empire's superweapon, the Death Star. In The Empire Strikes Back (1980), Leia commands a Rebel base and evades Vader as she falls in love with the smuggler Han Solo. In Return of the Jedi (1983), she helps to rescue Han from the crime lord Jabba the Hutt, and is revealed to be Vader's daughter and the twin sister of Luke Skywalker. The 2005 prequel film Revenge of the Sith reveals that Leia's mother is Senator Padmé Amidala of Naboo, who dies after childbirth. Her father is Anakin Skywalker, a Jedi who falls to the dark side of the Force and becomes Darth Vader. After her mother's death, Leia is adopted by Senator Bail Organa of Alderaan and his wife, Queen Breha. In the sequel trilogy, Leia is a founder and General of the Resistance, which fights against the First Order. She and Han have a son named Ben Solo, who turned to the dark side and became the First Order warlord Kylo Ren. In The Rise of Skywalker (2019), it is revealed that Leia was trained as a Jedi by Luke sometime after the events of Return of the Jedi. Leia is now the mentor of Rey, the last remaining Jedi. Leia dies towards the end of the film but returns as a Force spirit alongside Luke. One of the more popular Star Wars characters, Leia has been called a 1980s icon, a feminist hero and model for other adventure heroines. She has appeared in many derivative works and merchandising, including the now-noncanonical Star Wars Expanded Universe, and has been referenced or parodied in several TV shows and films. Her "cinnamon bun" hairstyle from Star Wars (1977) and metal bikini from Return of the Jedi have become cultural icons. Fisher was nominated for the Saturn Award for Best Actress twice for A New Hope and Return of the Jedi. Fisher later received two Saturn Award nominations for Best Supporting Actress, the first for The Force Awakens and the second being a posthumous nomination for The Last Jedi.

Qi'ra Qi'ra is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise, first appearing in the 2018 film Solo: A Star Wars Story and portrayed by English actress Emilia Clarke. The character was introduced in the 2018 prequel novel Most Wanted by Rae Carson. A practitioner of Teräs Käsi, she is Han Solo's childhood best friend and first love from the planet Corellia. The pair live on the streets before she is captured and he flees the planet. In order to leave the planet herself, Qi'ra becomes a lieutenant in the Crimson Dawn crime syndicate under Maul, assuming control of the organization after his death, becoming its leader during the Galactic Civil War.

Qui-Gon Jinn Qui-Gon Jinn () is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise created by George Lucas. He is introduced as a main character played by Liam Neeson in The Phantom Menace (1999). He appears briefly as a Force spirit in the 2008 animated series The Clone Wars, the season finale of the 2022 live-action series Obi-Wan Kenobi, along with Attack of the Clones and The Rise of Skywalker as a disembodied voice, with Neeson reprising his role in all of the above. Qui-Gon also appears in two episodes of Tales of the Jedi, which depicts some scenes from his life before the events of The Phantom Menace; Neeson voices adult Qui-Gon in the series, while his son Micheál Richardson voices Qui-Gon as a Padawan. Within the fictional Star Wars universe, Qui-Gon mentors Obi-Wan Kenobi, and is a powerful and wise, yet maverick and controversial Jedi Master, who has many uncommon beliefs regarding the Force. In The Phantom Menace, his and Obi-Wan's mission to protect Queen Padmé Amidala leads him to encounter the young slave Anakin Skywalker, whom he believes to be the prophesied "Chosen One" who will bring balance to the Force and insists upon his training as a Jedi against the wishes of the Jedi High Council, who believe Skywalker to be too old for training. Qui-Gon is fatally wounded in a lightsaber duel by the Sith Lord Darth Maul; in his final moments, he makes Obi-Wan promise that he will train Skywalker. Attack of the Clones introduces his former Jedi mentor Count Dooku, who fell to the dark side of the Force and became a Sith Lord. At the end of Revenge of the Sith, it is revealed that Qui-Gon has learned how to become a Force spirit after death, teaching the idea to Yoda during the Clone Wars and later to Obi-Wan. Outside of the films, the character appears in various canon and non-canon Star Wars media, such as books, comics, and video games. Since the release of The Phantom Menace, Qui-Gon has become one of the most popular Star Wars characters, gaining a cult status. Neeson's portrayal of Qui-Gon has been met with positive reviews, with some critics saying he helped hold the film together significantly. For his role in The Phantom Menace, Neeson was nominated for a 2000 Saturn Award for Best Actor.

Ren (Star Wars) Ren is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. Created by writer Charles Soule and artist Will Sliney, he first appeared in Marvel Comics' 2019–2020 Star Wars: The Rise of Kylo Ren comic book series. Ren became a breakout character, appearing in 2021 in the comic series Star Wars: War of the Bounty Hunters and Star Wars: Crimson Reign, and the Disney+ Halloween special Lego Star Wars: Terrifying Tales, voiced by Christian Slater. He is the masked, bodily-scarred master of the "shadow"-wielding Knights of Ren preceding Kylo Ren, allied with Qi'ra and Crimson Dawn during the reign of the Galactic Empire. Slater's performance as Ren received positive critical reception, leading to interest in him reprising his role in live-action media on Disney+.

Return of the Jedi Return of the Jedi (also known as Star Wars: Episode VI – Return of the Jedi) is a 1983 American epic space opera film that is a sequel to Star Wars (1977) and The Empire Strikes Back (1980). It is the third installment in the original Star Wars trilogy and the sixth chronological film in the "Skywalker Saga". It is directed by Richard Marquand based on a screenplay by Lawrence Kasdan and George Lucas from a story by Lucas, who was also the executive producer. The film follows the ongoing struggle between the malevolent Galactic Empire and the freedom fighters of the Rebel Alliance. As the Rebels attempt to destroy the Empire's second Death Star, Luke Skywalker tries to bring his father, Darth Vader, back from the dark side of the Force. The film stars Mark Hamill, Harrison Ford, Carrie Fisher, Billy Dee Williams, Anthony Daniels, David Prowse, Kenny Baker, Peter Mayhew and Frank Oz. Steven Spielberg, David Lynch and David Cronenberg were considered to direct the film before Marquand signed on as director. The production team relied on Lucas's storyboards during pre-production. While writing the shooting script, Lucas, Kasdan, Marquand, and producer Howard Kazanjian spent two weeks in conference discussing ideas to construct it. Kazanjian's schedule pushed shooting to begin a few weeks early to allow Industrial Light & Magic more time to work on the film's effects in post-production. Filming took place in England, California, and Arizona from January to May 1982 (1982-05). The film was released in theaters on May 25, 1983. It grossed $374 million worldwide during its initial theatrical run, becoming the highest-grossing film of 1983. The film was well received by critics, with strong praise going to the performances of the actors, John Williams's score, the special effects and the action sequences. Several re-releases and revisions to the film have followed over the decades, which have brought its total gross to $482 million. The United States Library of Congress selected it for preservation in the National Film Registry in 2021. Plot A year after Han Solo's capture and imprisonment in carbonite, C-3PO and R2-D2 enter the palace of the crime lord Jabba the Hutt on Tatooine. They were sent as a goodwill gift by Luke Skywalker, who hopes to negotiate with Jabba for Han's release. Disguised as a bounty hunter, Princess Leia infiltrates the palace under the pretense of having captured Chewbacca. She releases Han from the carbonite, but is caught by Jabba and enslaved. Luke arrives to bargain for the release of his friends, but Jabba drops him through a trapdoor to be eaten by a rancor. After Luke kills the beast, Jabba decrees that he, Han, and Chewbacca will be fed to a Sarlacc, a deadly ground-dwelling creature. Luke retrieves his new lightsaber from R2-D2, and the group of friends battle Jabba's thugs aboard his sail barge. During the chaos, Boba Fett falls into the Sarlacc's pit and Leia strangles Jabba to death with her chains. The group escapes as Jabba’s sail barge is destroyed. As the others rendezvous with the Rebel Alliance, Luke returns to Dagobah to complete his Jedi training with Yoda, who is dying when he arrives. Before Yoda dies, he confirms that Darth Vader is Luke's father, the former Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker. He also informs Luke that there is another Skywalker. Soon after, Obi-Wan Kenobi's Force spirit tells Luke that Leia is his twin sister, and that he must face Vader again to finish his training and defeat the Empire. The Alliance learns that the Empire has been constructing a second Death Star under the supervision of the Emperor. The station is protected by an energy shield on the forest moon of Endor. To destroy its generator, Han leads a strike team which includes Luke, Leia and Chewbacca. Once on the moon, the team gains the trust of a tribe of Ewoks after an initial conflict. Later, Luke tells Leia that she is his sister, and that Vader is their father. Luke surrenders to Imperial troops and is brought before Vader, but fails to convince him to reject the dark side of the Force. Luke is brought to the Emperor, who intends to turn him to the dark side. He also reveals that Luke's friends on Endor and the Rebel fleet are heading into a trap. On the forest moon, Han's team is captured by Imperial forces, but a counterattack by the Ewoks allows the Rebels to infiltrate the shield generator. Meanwhile, Lando Calrissian and Admiral Ackbar lead the Rebel assault on the Death Star, finding its shield still active and the Imperial fleet waiting for them. The Emperor reveals to Luke that the Death Star is fully operational and orders the firing of its massive laser, which destroys a Rebel starship. He invites Luke to give in to his anger and embrace the dark side of the Force. Luke attacks him, but Vader intervenes and the two engage in a lightsaber duel. Vader senses that Luke has a sister and threatens to turn her to the dark side if Luke will not join him. Enraged, Luke attacks Vader and severs his prosthetic hand. The Emperor orders Luke to kill his father, but Luke refuses. In response, the Emperor tortures Luke with Force lightning. Unwilling to let his son die, Vader throws the Emperor down a shaft to his demise. Vader is fatally wounded and asks Luke to remove his mask in a moment of reconciliation before he dies. After the Rebel strike team destroys the shield generator, Lando leads fighter ships into the Death Star's core. While the Rebel fleet destroys the Imperial command ship, Lando and X-wing pilot Wedge destroy the Death Star's main reactor and escape before the station explodes. Luke brings his father's body to Endor and burns it on a pyre before reuniting with his friends. As the Rebels celebrate their victory, Luke notices the Force spirits of Obi-Wan, Yoda, and Anakin standing nearby. Cast The cast also includes Michael Pennington as Moff Jerjerrod, Kenneth Colley as Admiral Piett, Michael Carter as Bib Fortuna (voiced by Erik Bauersfeld, who was uncredited), Denis Lawson as Wedge, Tim Rose as Admiral Ackbar (also voiced by Bauersfeld, again uncredited), Dermot Crowley as General Madine, Caroline Blakiston as Mon Mothma, Warwick Davis as Wicket, Jeremy Bulloch as Boba Fett, Femi Taylor as Oola, Annie Arbogast as Sy Snootles, Claire Davenport as Fat Dancer, Jack Purvis as Teebo, Mike Edmonds as Logray, Jane Busby as Chief Chirpa, Malcom Dixon and Mike Cottrell as Ewok Warriors, and Nicki Reade as Nicki. Additional Imperial officers are portrayed by Adam Bareham (Stardestroyer Controller #1), Jonathan Oliver (Stardestroyer Controller #2), Pip Miller (Stardestroyer Captain #1), and Tom Mannion (Stardestroyer Captain #2).

Rey (Star Wars) Rey is a character in the Star Wars franchise and the main protagonist of the sequel film trilogy. She was created by Lawrence Kasdan, J. J. Abrams, and Michael Arndt for The Force Awakens (2015), the first installment of the trilogy, and is primarily portrayed by Daisy Ridley. Rey also appears in the film's sequels, The Last Jedi (2017) and The Rise of Skywalker (2019), and related Star Wars media. Rey is introduced as a scavenger who was abandoned on the planet Jakku when she was a child. She becomes involved in the Resistance's conflict with the First Order. Powerfully Force-sensitive, Rey trains to be a Jedi under siblings Luke Skywalker and Leia Organa, and faces adversaries such as Kylo Ren, Supreme Leader Snoke and the resurrected Emperor Palpatine—who is revealed to be her grandfather in The Rise of Skywalker. Despite being enemies, Rey and Kylo Ren share a connection called a 'Force dyad' and eventually become romantically involved with one another. Following Palpatine's final defeat and her own resurrection, Rey adopts the name Rey Skywalker to honor her mentors and their family legacy and renounce her lineage. As the last remaining Jedi, she makes it her mission to rebuild the Jedi Order.

Rogue One Rogue One (or Rogue One: A Star Wars Story) is a 2016 American epic space opera film directed by Gareth Edwards. The screenplay by Chris Weitz and Tony Gilroy is based on a story by John Knoll and Gary Whitta. The movie was produced by Lucasfilm and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures. It is the first installment of the Star Wars anthology series, and an immediate prequel to Star Wars (1977). The main cast consists of Felicity Jones, Diego Luna, Ben Mendelsohn, Donnie Yen, Mads Mikkelsen, Alan Tudyk, Riz Ahmed, Jiang Wen, and Forest Whitaker. Set a week before the events of Star Wars, the plot follows a group of rebels who band together to steal plans of the Death Star, the ultimate weapon of the Galactic Empire. It details the Rebel Alliance's first effective victory against the Empire, first referenced in Star Wars' opening crawl. Based on an idea first pitched by Knoll ten years before it entered development, the film was made to be different in tone and style from the traditional Star Wars films, omitting the customary opening crawl and transitional screen wipes. Principal photography on the film began at Pinewood Studios, Buckinghamshire, in early August 2015 and wrapped in February 2016. The film then went through extensive reshoots in mid-2016. The film's score was composed by Michael Giacchino, rather than John Williams, who composed the score of all prior Skywalker Saga films up to that point. With an estimated production budget of $200-265 million, it is one of the most expensive films ever made. Rogue One premiered in Los Angeles on December 10, 2016, and was theatrically released in the United States on December 16. The film received positive reviews from critics, with praise for its acting, story, visuals, musical score, cinematography, and the darker and more serious tone compared to previous Star Wars films, but criticism for its pacing, characters, and digital recreations of Peter Cushing and Carrie Fisher. It grossed over $1 billion worldwide, making it the 20th-highest-grossing film of all time and the second-highest-grossing film of 2016 during its theatrical run. It received two Academy Award nominations for Best Sound Mixing and Best Visual Effects. A prequel television series, titled Andor, premiered on the streaming service Disney+ on September 21, 2022, with Luna reprising his role as the title character. Plot Research scientist Galen Erso and his family hide on the planet Lah'mu when Imperial weapons developer Orson Krennic arrives to press him into completing the Death Star, a superweapon capable of destroying planets. Galen's wife Lyra is killed in the confrontation while their five year old daughter Jyn escapes and is rescued by rebel freedom fighter Saw Gerrera. Fifteen years later, cargo pilot Bodhi Rook defects from the Empire, taking a holographic message from Galen to Gerrera on the moon Jedha. Rebel Alliance intelligence officer Cassian Andor learns of the Death Star and Rook's defection from an informant. Jyn is freed from an Imperial labor camp on Wobani and is brought to the Rebels' secret base on Yavin IV where leader Mon Mothma convinces her to find Galen so the Alliance can learn more about the superweapon. Cassian is covertly ordered to aid Jyn but kill Galen rather than extract him. Jyn, Cassian, and reprogrammed former Imperial droid K-2SO travel to Jedha, where the Empire loots kyber crystals from Jedha City to power the Death Star. Gerrera and his partisans are engaged in an armed insurgency against them. With the aid of blind spiritual warrior Chirrut Îmwe and his mercenary friend Baze Malbus, Jyn makes contact with Gerrera, who holds Rook captive. Gerrera shows her the message in which Galen reveals he has secretly built a vulnerability into the Death Star. The schematics detailing this are in an Imperial data vault on the planet Scarif. Onboard the Death Star, Krennic orders a low-powered test fire which destroys Jedha City. Jyn and her group take Rook and flee the moon, but Gerrera remains there to die. Imperial governor Grand Moff Tarkin congratulates Krennic before using Rook's defection and security leak as a pretext to take control of the Death Star project. Rook leads the group to Galen's Imperial research facility on the planet Eadu, where Cassian declines to kill Galen. Rebel bombers then attack the facility. Galen is wounded and dies in Jyn's arms, before she escapes with her group on a stolen Imperial cargo shuttle. Krennic is summoned by Darth Vader to answer for the attack on Jedha. Krennic seeks his support for an audience with the Emperor, but Vader instead chokes him and orders him to ensure no further problems occur. At the Rebel base, Jyn proposes a plan to steal the Death Star schematics but fails to gain approval from the Alliance Council, who feel fighting the Empire is now pointless. Frustrated at their inaction, Jyn's group leads a small squad of Rebel volunteers to raid the vault; the group arrives on Scarif in the stolen Imperial shuttle (which Rook dubs "Rogue One") after having been granted access through the planet's shield by feigning as legitimate traffic. Jyn, Cassian, and K-2SO infiltrate the base while the other Rebels attack the Imperial garrison as a diversion. The Alliance learns of the raid from intercepted Imperial communications and deploys their fleet in support, leading to a space battle between the Rebel and Imperial fleets. K-2SO sacrifices himself so Jyn and Cassian can retrieve the data. Îmwe is killed after activating the switch to allow communication with the Rebel fleet, and Malbus is killed shortly afterward. Rook is killed by a grenade after informing the Rebel fleet that it must deactivate the planetary shield to allow the transmission of the schematics. Rebel Admiral Raddus uses a Rebel ship to crash two Imperial Star Destroyers into each other; the wreckage collides with and destroys the shield generator. Jyn obtains the schematics but is ambushed by Krennic, who is shot and wounded by Cassian. Jyn transmits the schematics to the Rebel command ship moments before the Death Star arrives above Scarif. With another shot from the Death Star, Tarkin destroys the base citadel, killing Krennic, Cassian, Jyn, and the remaining Rebel and Imperial ground forces. The Rebel fleet prepares to jump to hyperspace. However, Admiral Raddus and many of the fleet's ships are intercepted by Vader's Star Destroyer. Vader boards the Rebel command ship and kills many troops trying to regain the schematics, but a smaller ship escapes with the schematics on board. Aboard the fleeing ship, Princess Leia Organa declares that the schematics will provide hope for the Rebellion as the ship enters hyperspace. Cast Jimmy Smits, Genevieve O'Reilly, Anthony Daniels, and Jimmy Vee reprise their roles from previous films as Bail Organa, Mon Mothma, C-3PO, and R2-D2, respectively; Vee is uncredited for his role. James Earl Jones also reprises his role from previous films as the voice of Darth Vader, who is physically portrayed by Spencer Wilding during the meeting with Krennic and aboard the Star Destroyer, and by Daniel Naprous at the end of the movie. Grand Moff Tarkin and Princess Leia Organa are played by Guy Henry and Ingvild Deila respectively, with the digital likenesses of Peter Cushing and Carrie Fisher superimposed. Henry also provides the voice for Tarkin, while archival audio of Fisher is used for Leia's dialogue. Angus MacInnes and Drewe Henley are featured as Gold Leader Dutch Vander and Red Leader Garven Dreis respectively, via unused footage from A New Hope; MacInnes returned to record new dialogue for Vander, while new dialogue for the deceased Henley was assembled from archival material. David Ankrum, who voiced Wedge Antilles in A New Hope, reprises his role in a vocal cameo. Ian McElhinney, Michael Smiley, Andy de la Tour, and Tim Beckmann play General Jan Dodonna, Dr. Evazan, General Hurst Romodi, and Captain Raymus Antilles, respectively. Warwick Davis plays Weeteef Cyubee, a member of Saw Gerrera's Partisans. Dave Filoni reprises his role as C1-10P from Star Wars Rebels. Stephen Stanton voices Admiral Raddus, while Paul Kasey appears in costume as the alien character on-screen. Duncan Pow plays Ruescott Melshi, a sergeant in the Rebel Alliance. Additionally, Alistair Petrie plays General Davits Draven, Ben Daniels plays General Antoc Merrick, and Valene Kane plays Lyra Erso, Jyn's mother. Jonathan Aris, Fares Fares, and Sharon Duncan-Brewster appear as Senators Nower Jebel, Vasp Vaspar, and Tynnra Pamlo, respectively. Simon Farnaby plays a member of Blue Squadron. Jordan Stephens appears as Rebel Alliance member Corporal Tonc. Nick Kellington plays Bistan, a door gunner on a U-wing during the battle on Scarif. Ian Whyte plays Moroff, a member of Saw Gerrera's Partisans. Daniel Mays appears as Tivik. Rian Johnson and Ram Bergman, director and producer of Star Wars: The Last Jedi, respectively, cameo as two Death Star technicians.

Rogue One (soundtrack) Rogue One: A Star Wars Story (Original Motion Picture Soundtrack) is the soundtrack album to the 2016 film Rogue One directed by Gareth Edwards, which is the first instalment in the Star Wars anthology series. Originally, Alexandre Desplat was hired for the film score but was replaced by Michael Giacchino during the film's post-production. Giacchino scored the film within a span of the month, despite the tight schedule, and had incorporated John Williams' themes from previous Star Wars films into the score, having minor elements, while most of the themes were newly composed. The soundtrack was released by Walt Disney Records on December 16, 2016, coinciding with the film's theatrical release. The score received a positive response from critics, appreciating Giacchino's tunes as well as the incorporation of minimal cues from Williams' themes. It peaked at number 45 and 17, on the Billboard 200 and soundtracks chart in US, as well as in number 3 on the soundtracks chart from UK's Official Charts Company. An expanded edition, consisting of un-edited and additional demos composed, was released on February 11, 2022, as was a 4-LP disc marketed by Mondo, was published in March 2022.

Rose Tico Rose Tico is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise, first appearing in the simultaneously released Star Wars: The Last Jedi and Cobalt Squadron (both 2017). A mechanic with the Resistance, she befriends Finn (John Boyega) and works with him to try to help Resistance forces escape from the First Order. Rose is portrayed by Kelly Marie Tran. Rose was created by The Last Jedi writer and director Rian Johnson after he decided a subplot originally involving Finn and Poe Dameron needed a different dynamic. "The Last Jedi" marked Kelly Marie Tran's first film role, and she had never watched a Star Wars film before auditioning for the part. As a struggling actress who had contemplated quitting the profession, Tran underwent an intense five-month audition process, successfully competing against hundreds of other actresses for the role. Rose's backstory is revealed in the novel "Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Cobalt Squadron" (2017), where she is the protagonist alongside her sister Paige, a minor character in the film. The novel establishes that Rose and Paige joined the Resistance after their impoverished home planet was devastated by the First Order. The character of Rose serves as a relatable audience surrogate, an everywoman, a positive influence on Finn, and the personification of real-life Star Wars fandom. Johnson originally planned for Rose to be sarcastic and irritable, but the character was changed to match Tran's personality after she was cast, becoming more positive. Tran felt a connection between Rose's past experiences and those of her own family during the Vietnam War, and she researched the conflict and her family's past to help get into Rose's mindset. The character and Tran's portrayal received largely positive reactions from critics, though fan reactions were more divided, and she became the subject of racist and sexist attacks over the Internet. Multiple fans and celebrities came to Tran's defense, and she directly responded to the harassment with an essay in The New York Times. For her performance in The Last Jedi, Tran was nominated for the Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actress. Rose returned in Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker (2019), the final installment in the sequel trilogy, in which she has risen in the ranks of the Resistance and has taken on a greater leadership role. The character's reduced role in the film was a major point of criticism for many, who saw it as giving in to online racist and sexist attacks against Kelly Marie Tran.

Rugosa A moon that consists of giant coral reefs. Yoda meets King Katuunko of the Toydarians here after being tested in battle by the Separatist Droid Army, during the early days of the Clone Wars. It is here where King Katuunko pledges Toydaria's allegiance to the Galactic Republic.

Sabine Wren Sabine Wren is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise, voiced by Tiya Sircar in the animated series Star Wars Rebels (2014–2018) and Forces of Destiny (2017–2018), and portrayed by Natasha Liu Bordizzo in the live-action miniseries Ahsoka (2023). In Star Wars Rebels, Sabine is introduced as a Mandalorian graffiti artist and bounty hunter who left the Empire for the Rebel Alliance after a weapon she developed for them was used against her people; as a rebel, she joins the crew of the Ghost, recruiting Wedge Antilles to their cause, and on stealing the Darksaber from Maul, is trained in lightsaber combat by Kanan Jarrus, in spite of an inability to use the Force, eventually giving the Darksaber to Bo-Katan Kryze, and moving to Lothal after Ezra Bridger sacrifices himself to banish himself and Grand Admiral Thrawn to another galaxy. Between the events of Rebels and Ahsoka, Sabine becomes the Jedi Padawan of Ahsoka Tano offscreen, studying Jedi practices in a failed attempt to learn how to wield the Force herself, before leaving Ahsoka after her family is killed during the genocidal Purge of Mandalore, a conflict Ahsoka had prevented Sabine from participating in. In Ahsoka, Sabine reunites with Ahsoka to investigate rumors of Thrawn's and Ezra' survival; after Ahsoka is apparently killed by former Jedi Baylan Skoll, Sabine joins him in tracking down Thrawn and Ezra, ensuring both return to the galaxy, while Sabine herself, a still-alive Ahsoka, Baylan, and his own apprentice Shin Hati are all left stranded in the other galaxy. The character has received a generally positive critical reception, for both Sircar's vocal performance and Liu Bordizzo's physical portrayal.

Savareen Desert and ocean planet. where destitute villages farm wind and refine coaxium. In Solo: A Star Wars Story, the Millennium Falcon arrives there after Han and his crew steal coaxium from Kessel, and Dryden Vos and Tobias Beckett die there.

Saw Gerrera Saw Gerrera is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. He was originally introduced as a minor character in the animated series Star Wars: The Clone Wars, where he was voiced by Andrew Kishino. He was subsequently played by Forest Whitaker in the film Rogue One: A Star Wars Story, who went on to voice the character in the animated series Star Wars Rebels and the video game Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order, and reprises the role in live-action in the television series Andor. Saw also appears in The Clone Wars spin-off Star Wars: The Bad Batch, with Kishino reprising his role. In The Clone Wars, he is the brother of the leader of the Onderon rebels, Steela Gerrera, with whom he helps free Onderon from the Confederacy of Independent Systems, and is mentored in military combat by Obi-Wan Kenobi, Anakin Skywalker, and Padawan Ahsoka Tano, as well as clone trooper Captain Rex. In Rogue One, Saw is the foster parent and mentor in military combat of Jyn Erso, as well as the leader of the Partisans, an anarchist rebel cell unaffiliated with the Rebel Alliance due to Saw's violent military tactics, whose missions are explored in some episodes of Rebels and other Star Wars media.

Scarif Oceanic "paradise world" used for construction of the Death Star after the project was moved from Geonosis during the Imperial Era. When Rebel Alliance members raid the Imperial database from the secret base on one of its tropical islands, the planet is destroyed to impede their escape with the Death Star plans.

Solo: A Star Wars Story Solo: A Star Wars Story is a 2018 American space Western film centering on the Star Wars character Han Solo. Directed by Ron Howard, produced by Lucasfilm, and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures, it is the second Star Wars anthology film, following Rogue One (2016). Alden Ehrenreich stars as Solo, with Woody Harrelson, Emilia Clarke, Donald Glover, Thandiwe Newton, Phoebe Waller-Bridge, Joonas Suotamo, and Paul Bettany. The film tells the origin story of Han Solo and Chewbacca, who join a heist within the criminal underworld ten years prior to the events of A New Hope. George Lucas began developing a Han Solo prequel in 2012 and commissioned Lawrence Kasdan to write the screenplay. After Lucas sold Lucasfilm to The Walt Disney Company in 2012, Kasdan was hired to write The Force Awakens (2015), leaving his son Jonathan to complete the Solo script. Principal photography began in January 2017 at Pinewood Studios, with directors Phil Lord and Christopher Miller. Both were fired in June 2017 following creative differences with Lucasfilm, and Howard was hired as their replacement. Solo is one of the most expensive films ever made, with a budget of at least $275 million. Solo was released in North America on May 25, 2018. The film received generally positive reviews from critics, which praised the cast (particularly Ehrenreich and Glover), visuals, score, and action sequences, while some criticized the storyline and screenplay. It became the first Star Wars film to be a box office bomb, only grossing $393.2 million worldwide. It received a nomination for Best Visual Effects at the 91st Academy Awards. Plot On the planet Corellia, orphans Han and Qi'ra escape a local gang. They bribe an Imperial officer with stolen coaxium, a starship fuel, for passage on a transport, but Qi'ra is captured before she can board. Han vows to return for her and joins the Imperial Navy as a flight cadet, being given the surname "Solo". Three years later, Han is serving as an infantryman on Mimban following his expulsion from the Imperial Flight Academy for insubordination. He encounters a trio of criminals posing as Imperial soldiers, led by Tobias Beckett. Han attempts to blackmail Beckett into letting him join the gang, but Beckett has him arrested and thrown into a pit to be fed to a Wookiee prisoner named Chewbacca. Able to understand Chewbacca's language, Han persuades him to cooperate to escape. Beckett, aware of the usefulness of a Wookiee's strength, rescues and enlists them in the gang to steal a shipment of coaxium on Vandor-1. The plan fails when the Cloud Riders, a band of space pirates led by Enfys Nest, arrive to hijack the shipment. The resulting chaos leads to the destruction of the coaxium and the deaths of Beckett's partner Val and their crewman Rio. Beckett reveals that he was ordered to steal the shipment for Dryden Vos, a high-ranking crime boss in the Crimson Dawn syndicate. Han and Chewbacca volunteer to help him steal another shipment to repay the debt so that Vos will not kill him. They travel to Vos's yacht, where Han finds Qi'ra, who has joined Crimson Dawn as Vos's top lieutenant. Han suggests a risky plan to steal unrefined coaxium from the mines on Kessel. Vos approves but insists that Qi'ra accompany the team. She leads them to Lando Calrissian, a smuggler and pilot, who she hopes will lend them his ship, the Millennium Falcon. Han challenges Lando to a game of cards, with the wager being Lando's ship. Lando cheats to win but agrees to join the mission in exchange for a share of the profits. After reaching Kessel in the Falcon and infiltrating the mine, Lando's droid co-pilot L3-37 instigates a slave revolt. They steal the coaxium, but L3 is fatally damaged in the confusion and Lando is wounded during the escape. With the help of L3's navigational data, uploaded into the ship's systems, Han pilots the ship through the dangerous and uncharted Kessel Run to elude an Imperial blockade. The Falcon, badly damaged, lands on the planet Savareen to process the coaxium. Enfys arrives, having tracked the team from Vandor, and Lando leaves in the Falcon, deserting everyone else. Enfys reveals that she and her crew are rebels trying to strike back at the syndicates and the Empire. Han becomes sympathetic to their cause and tries to trick Vos, who reveals Beckett has already alerted him to the double-cross. Vos sends his guards to kill Enfys, but the Cloud Riders overpower them, leaving Vos defenseless. Having anticipated Vos's strategy, Han tries to take the coaxium, but Beckett betrays Vos and escapes with it, taking Chewbacca hostage. Qi'ra kills Vos and sends Han after Beckett. She contacts Vos's superior, Maul, to inform him of the mission's failure, which she blames on Beckett. Maul orders Qi'ra to meet with him on Dathomir. Han confronts Beckett and shoots him dead before he can return fire. Qi'ra leaves in Vos's yacht, while Han and Chewbacca give the coaxium to Enfys, who offers Han a chance to join the rebellion against the Empire. He declines, and she gives him a vial of coaxium, enough to purchase a ship of his own. Han and Chewbacca locate Lando and challenge him to a rematch, once again wagering the Falcon. This time Han wins after having stolen the hidden card that Lando used to cheat his way to victory the first time. Han and Chewbacca then leave for Tatooine to find the crime lord mentioned by Beckett who is putting together a big, profitable job. Cast Erin Kellyman appears as Enfys Nest, the leader of a gang of space pirates called Cloud Riders. Jon Favreau voices Rio Durant, a pilot on Beckett's crew, and Linda Hunt voices Lady Proxima, the serpent-like leader of the gang to which teenage Han and Qi'ra belong. Ian Kenny portrays Rebolt while Clint Howard portrays Ralakili. Additionally, Anthony Daniels cameos as Tak. Kiran Shah plays Karjj and Warwick Davis briefly reprises his role from The Phantom Menace as Weazel, a Cloud Rider. Ray Park reprises his role as Maul, with Sam Witwer providing the voice, reprising the role from The Clone Wars and Rebels animated TV series. Peter Serafinowicz, Maul's original voice actor in The Phantom Menace, was initially brought in and recorded Maul's dialogue, but his vocal performance was ultimately dropped in favor of Witwer's with the explanation that it was "better for the continuity". Dee Tails appears as Quay Tolsite, the director of the Pyke Syndicate's operations on Kessel. Screenwriter Jonathan Kasdan and first assistant director Toby Hefferman portrayed Tag Greenley and Bink Otauna, respectively—two characters that first appeared in the Star Wars Legends comics published by Dark Horse Comics. The scene was not included in the finished film.

Sorgan A forested backwater planet in the Outer Rim mostly populated by human farmers who harvest krill which is used to make spotchka, a popular drink on the planet. Local farmers are constantly attacked by Klatooinians.

Star Wars Star Wars is an American epic space opera media franchise created by George Lucas, which began with the eponymous 1977 film and quickly became a worldwide pop culture phenomenon. The franchise has been expanded into various films and other media, including television series, video games, novels, comic books, theme park attractions, and themed areas, comprising an all-encompassing fictional universe. Star Wars is one of the highest-grossing media franchises of all time. The original 1977 film, retroactively subtitled Episode IV: A New Hope, was followed by the sequels Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back (1980) and Episode VI: Return of the Jedi (1983), forming the original Star Wars trilogy. Lucas later returned to the series to write and direct a prequel trilogy, consisting of Episode I: The Phantom Menace (1999), Episode II: Attack of the Clones (2002), and Episode III: Revenge of the Sith (2005). In 2012, Lucas sold his production company to Disney, relinquishing his ownership of the franchise. This led to a sequel trilogy, consisting of Episode VII: The Force Awakens (2015), Episode VIII: The Last Jedi (2017), and Episode IX: The Rise of Skywalker (2019). All nine films, collectively referred to as the "Skywalker Saga", were nominated for Academy Awards, with wins going to the first two releases. Together with the theatrical live action "anthology" films Rogue One (2016) and Solo (2018), the combined box office revenue of the films equated to over US$10 billion, making Star Wars the third-highest-grossing film franchise of all time.

Star Wars (film) Star Wars (later retitled Star Wars: Episode IV – A New Hope) is a 1977 American epic space opera film written and directed by George Lucas, produced by Lucasfilm and distributed by Twentieth Century-Fox. It is the first film released in the Star Wars film series and the fourth chronological chapter of the "Skywalker Saga". Set "a long time ago" in a fictional galaxy ruled by the tyrannical Galactic Empire, the story follows a group of freedom fighters known as the Rebel Alliance, who aim to destroy the Empire's newest weapon, the Death Star. When the Rebel leader Princess Leia is abducted by the Empire, Luke Skywalker acquires stolen architectural plans of the Death Star and sets out to rescue her while learning the ways of a metaphysical power known as "the Force" from the Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi. The cast includes Mark Hamill, Harrison Ford, Carrie Fisher, Peter Cushing, Alec Guinness, Anthony Daniels, Kenny Baker, Peter Mayhew, David Prowse, and James Earl Jones. Lucas had the idea for a science fiction film in the vein of Flash Gordon around the time he completed his first film, THX 1138 (1971), and he began working on a treatment after the release of American Graffiti (1973). After numerous rewrites, filming took place throughout 1975 and 1976 in locations including Tunisia and Elstree Studios in Hertfordshire, England. Lucas formed the visual effects company Industrial Light & Magic to help create the film's visual effects. Star Wars suffered production difficulties: the cast and crew believed the film would be a failure, and it went $3 million over budget due to delays. Few were confident in the film's box office prospects. It was released in a small number of theaters in the United States on May 25, 1977, and quickly became a surprise blockbuster hit, leading to it being expanded to a much wider release. Star Wars opened to positive reviews, with praise for its special effects. It grossed $410 million worldwide during its initial run, surpassing Jaws (1975) to become the highest-grossing film until the release of E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial (1982); subsequent releases have brought its total gross to $775 million. When adjusted for inflation, Star Wars is the second-highest-grossing film in North America (behind Gone with the Wind) and the fourth-highest-grossing film of all time. It received Academy Awards, BAFTA Awards, and Saturn Awards, among others. The film has been reissued many times with Lucas's support—most significantly the 20th-anniversary theatrical "Special Edition"—and the reissues have contained many changes, including new scenes, visual effects, and dialogue. Often regarded as one of the greatest and most influential films ever made, the film became a pop-cultural phenomenon, launching an industry of tie-in products, including novels, comics, video games, amusement park attractions and merchandise such as toys, games, and clothing. It became one of the first 25 films selected by the United States Library of Congress for preservation in the National Film Registry in 1989, and its soundtrack was added to the U.S. National Recording Registry in 2004. The Empire Strikes Back (1980) and Return of the Jedi (1983) followed Star Wars, rounding out the original Star Wars trilogy. A prequel trilogy and a sequel trilogy have since been released, in addition to two standalone films and various television series. Plot Amid a galactic civil war, Rebel Alliance spies have stolen plans to the Death Star, a colossal space station built by the Galactic Empire that is capable of destroying entire planets. Princess Leia of Alderaan, secretly a Rebel leader, has obtained the schematics, but her ship is intercepted and boarded by Imperial forces under the command of Darth Vader. Leia is taken prisoner, but the droids R2-D2 and C-3PO escape with the plans, crashing on the nearby planet of Tatooine. The droids are captured by Jawa traders, who sell them to the moisture farmers Owen and Beru Lars and their nephew, Luke Skywalker. While Luke is cleaning R2-D2, he discovers a recording of Leia requesting help from a former ally named Obi-Wan Kenobi. R2-D2 goes missing, and while searching for him, Luke is attacked by Sand People. He is rescued by Obi-Wan, an elderly hermit. Obi-Wan tells Luke about his past as one of the Jedi Knights, former peacekeepers of the Galactic Republic, who drew mystical abilities from "the Force" but were hunted to near-extinction by the Empire. Luke learns that his father, also a Jedi, fought alongside Obi-Wan during the Clone Wars until Vader, Obi-Wan's former pupil, turned to the dark side of the Force and murdered him. Obi-Wan gives Luke his father's lightsaber, the signature weapon of the Jedi. R2-D2 plays Leia's full message, in which she begs Obi-Wan to take the Death Star plans to Alderaan and give them to her father, a fellow veteran, for analysis. Luke initially declines Obi-Wan's offer to accompany him to Alderaan and learn the ways of the Force, but he is left with no choice after Imperial stormtroopers murder his family while searching for the droids. Seeking a way off the planet, Luke and Obi-Wan travel to the city of Mos Eisley and hire Han Solo and Chewbacca, pilots of the starship Millennium Falcon. Before the Falcon reaches Alderaan, the Death Star commander Grand Moff Tarkin has the planet obliterated by the station's superlaser. Upon arrival, the Falcon is captured by the Death Star's tractor beam, but the passengers avoid detection and infiltrate the station. As Obi-Wan leaves to deactivate the tractor beam, Luke persuades Han and Chewbacca to help him rescue Leia, who is scheduled for execution after refusing to reveal the location of the Rebel base. After disabling the tractor beam, Obi-Wan sacrifices himself in a lightsaber duel against Vader, which allows the rest of the group to escape the Death Star. Using a tracking device placed on the Falcon, the Empire locates the Rebel base on the moon Yavin 4. Analysis of the Death Star schematics reveals a weakness in a small exhaust port leading directly to the station's reactor. Luke joins the Rebellion's X-wing squadron in a desperate attack against the Death Star, while Han and Chewbacca leave to pay off a debt to the crime lord Jabba the Hutt. In the ensuing battle, Vader leads a squadron of TIE fighters and destroys many of the Rebel ships. Han and Chewbacca unexpectedly return in the Falcon, knocking Vader's ship off course before he can shoot Luke down. Guided by the voice of Obi-Wan's spirit, Luke uses the Force to aim his torpedoes into the exhaust port, causing the Death Star to explode moments before it can fire on the Rebel base. In a triumphant ceremony, Leia awards Luke and Han medals for their heroism. Cast Phil Brown and Shelagh Fraser appear as Luke's Uncle Owen and Aunt Beru, respectively, and Jack Purvis portrays the Chief Jawa. Rebel leaders include Alex McCrindle as General Dodonna and Eddie Byrne as General Willard. Imperial commanders include Don Henderson as General Taggi, Richard LeParmentier as General Motti, and Leslie Schofield as Commander #1. Rebel pilots are played by Drewe Henley (Red Leader, mistakenly credited as Drewe Hemley), Denis Lawson (Red Two/Wedge, credited as Dennis Lawson), Garrick Hagon (Red Three/Biggs), Jack Klaff (Red Four/John "D"), William Hootkins (Red Six/Porkins), Angus MacInnes (Gold Leader, credited as Angus McInnis), Jeremy Sinden (Gold Two), and Graham Ashley (Gold Five). Uncredited actors include Paul Blake as the bounty hunter Greedo, Alfie Curtis as the outlaw who confronts Luke in the cantina, and Peter Geddis as the Rebel officer who is strangled by Darth Vader. Heavily synthesized audio recordings of John Wayne (from his earlier films) were used for the voice of Garindan, an Imperial spy.

Star Wars: Clone Wars (2003 TV series) Star Wars: Clone Wars is an American animated television series developed and directed by Genndy Tartakovsky and produced by Lucasfilm and Cartoon Network Studios for Cartoon Network. Set in the Star Wars universe, specifically between the Star Wars prequel trilogy films Attack of the Clones and Revenge of the Sith, it is amongst the first of many works to explore the Clone Wars. The show follows the actions of various prequel trilogy characters, notably Jedi and clone troopers, in their war against the droid armies of the Confederacy of Independent Systems and the Sith. The series aired on Cartoon Network for three seasons consisting of 25 episodes altogether from November 7, 2003, to March 25, 2005, and was the first Star Wars television series since Ewoks (1985–1986). The first two seasons of Clone Wars, released on DVD as Volume One were produced in episodes ranging from two to three minutes, while the third season consists of five 12-minute episodes and was released on DVD as Volume Two. The two volumes were released on DVD by 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment. Since its release, the series has received critical acclaim and won multiple awards, including the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Animated Program for both volumes. Its success led to it being spun off as the CGI series The Clone Wars in 2008. The show is available to be streamed on Disney+. "Chapter 1" Following the battle of Geonosis from Attack of the Clones, the Clone Wars rage across the galaxy. Obi-Wan Kenobi is given the task of leading the assault on Muunilinst while Anakin Skywalker gets command over the space forces. Anakin bids farewell to his secret wife, Senator Padmé Amidala. "Chapter 2" Obi-Wan's ARC troopers are shot down over the capital of Muunilinst as the assault on the Intergalactic Banking Clan's planet begins. "Chapter 3" Pinned down by droid enemy fire, the ARC troopers must make use of their specialist training to reach their target. "Chapter 4" With the battle of Muunilinst raging in space as well as on land, San Hill orders Durge and his IG-lancer droids to defend the city. "Chapter 5" On Mon Calamari, Kit Fisto and his Scuba Troopers defends the Calamari council against Manta Droid sub fighters army of the Quarren Isolation league. Mon Calamari Knights riding giant Keelkanas provide the Republic forces with back up. "Chapter 6" Count Dooku arrives on Rattatak to witness the gladiator fights at the "Cauldron". Asajj Ventress beats every opponent in the arena and claims to be a Sith. "Chapter 7" Dooku submits Asajj Ventress to a test with a lightsaber before sending her on her way to find and eliminate Anakin Skywalker. "Chapter 8" General Kenobi and his troopers mount up on speeder bikes to take on Durge and the droid forces from the Intergalactic Banking Clan. "Chapter 9" General Kenobi and the ARC Troopers capture the Banking Clan's headquarters but Durge remains in pursuit, displaying almost unstoppable regenerative powers. "Chapter 10" Anakin proves himself to be the best star fighter in the galaxy battling Geonosian fighters above Muunilinst. "Chapter 11" Anakin chases a mysterious rogue pilot (Asajj Ventress) piloting a Geonosian fanblade starfighter and against his master's orders, pursues her into hyperspace. "Chapter 12" Young Paxi Sylo looks on as Mace Windu battles Separatist droids backed up by enormous seismic tanks on Dantooine. "Chapter 13" Having lost his lightsaber, Master Windu must take on a battalion of Super Battle Droids hand to hand. "Chapter 14" The sacred Jedi Temple on Ilum is attacked by Chameleon droids just as Luminara Unduli's padawan, Barriss Offee is completing her training. "Chapter 15" Master Yoda, traveling aboard Senator Amidala's ship, persuades Captain Typho to take a detour to Ilum in order to mount a rescue operation. "Chapter 16" Padmé, worrying about Master Yoda, is attacked by Chameleon Droids. Luckily she has C-3PO to use as a decoy. "Chapter 17" Anakin has followed Asajj Ventress to Yavin 4. Although a clone squadron has been sent after them by Obi-Wan in a Republic carrier, they prove to be no match for the Sith hopeful. "Chapter 18" Asajj Ventress leads Anakin through the jungles of Yavin 4 toward the ancient Massassi temples once inhabited by Exar Kun. "Chapter 19" Driven to the edge by Asajj Ventress, Anakin almost gives in to the Dark Side in a final bid to defeat her. "Chapter 20" The Republic has won the battle of Muunilinst, but news arrives of a new droid general hunting down Jedi on the planet Hypori. There, a group of Jedi consisting of Ki-Adi Mundi, Shaak Ti, Aayla Secura, K'Kruhk, Tarr Seirr, Daakman Barrek and Sha'a Gi are driven into a corner by the formidable General Grievous. "Chapter 21" Captain Fordo and his ARC troopers rescue Ki-Adi-Mundi, Aayla Secura and Shaak Ti from General Grievous. The Jedi council grants Anakin Skywalker the title of Jedi Knight, after which Senator Amidala allows him the use of R2-D2 as co-pilot for his Jedi Interceptor starship. "Chapter 22" Closer to the end of the war, Anakin has become battle-scarred and leads the third army of the Republic alongside Obi-Wan Kenobi. They blow up a shield generator and capture a fortress. Meanwhile, Separatist forces move in on Outer Rim planets such as Kashyyyk, Orto and Bal'demnic. Anakin visits Padmé on Naboo, but as Darth Sidious launches his final operation, he and Obi-Wan are sent to Nelvaan, where Anakin disrupts a young native's rite of passage by defeating a giant Horax. "Chapter 23" Coruscant is attacked by Separatist forces. Mace Windu takes to the air while Yoda rides his Kybuck to defend the city. Meanwhile, Saesee Tinn leads his troops into battle just above the planet's atmosphere. On Nelvaan, Obi-Wan volunteers Anakin to take the trial of fire. "Chapter 24" Jedi Shaak Ti, Roron Corobb and Foul Moudama fight to keep Supreme Chancellor Palpatine out of General Grievous's mechanical claws. Anakin finds a hidden laboratory where the Techno Union is conducting mutation experiments on Nelvaan warriors. "Chapter 25" Shaak Ti takes a desperate stand against Grievous's Magnaguards. Anakin, surrounded by mutated Nelvaan Warriors, must destroy the geothermal crystal powering the siphon generator. Mace Windu hurries to face General Grievous, who abducts Palpatine. When Anakin and Obi-Wan learn of this, they set out on a dangerous rescue mission, leading to the opening of Revenge of the Sith.

Star Wars Detours Star Wars Detours is an unaired American animated comedy series. It is differentiated from the other Star Wars animated series in that it is a parody of the franchise. It offers a comedic take on what happened between the prequel trilogy (Episodes I–III) and the original trilogy (Episodes IV–VI). The series was produced by Lucasfilm Animation in collaboration with Robot Chicken creators Seth Green and Matthew Senreich. Although 39 episodes of the show have been produced, their release has been on hold since 2013, following Disney's acquisition of Lucasfilm.

Star Wars: Droids Star Wars: Droids: The Adventures of R2-D2 and C-3PO is a 1985 animated television series spin off from the original Star Wars trilogy. It focuses on the exploits of droids R2-D2 and C-3PO between the events of Revenge of the Sith and A New Hope. The series was produced by Nelvana on behalf of Lucasfilm and broadcast on ABC with its sister series Ewoks (as part of The Ewoks and Droids Adventure Hour). The series ran for one season of 13 half-hour episodes; an hour-long special broadcast in 1986 serves as the finale. The opening theme, "In Trouble Again," was performed by Stewart Copeland of the Police. During their adventures, the droids find themselves in the service of successive new masters. The original trilogy characters Boba Fett and IG-88 appear in one episode apiece. Since then the animated series has become a cult classic. "The White Witch" After being jettisoned over the deserts of Ingo by an unscrupulous former master, C-3PO and R2-D2 are taken in by speeder bike racers Jord Dusat and Thall Joben. Kea Moll sees them accidentally cross a restricted zone, and helps protect them from several deadly droids. One of gangster Tig Fromm's droids kidnaps Jord, and the droids assist Thall and Kea in rescuing Jord from Fromm's secret base, destroying much of his droid army in the process. "Escape Into Terror" After C-3PO lets the hyperdrive of Kea's starship float away into space, he, R2-D2, Jord, and Thall stay with Kea and her mother, Demma, on Annoo while trying to secure a new hyperdrive. The droids discover that Kea is a member of the Rebel Alliance. While Jord stays with Demma, Thall, Kea and the droids sneak onto the Fromm gang's ship in order to infiltrate the secret base on Ingo. There, they capture the Trigon One, a weaponized satellite created by the Fromm gang to take over the galactic quadrant. "The Trigon Unleashed" After the Fromm gang raids the speeder shop on Ingo and captures Thall, Kea and the droids, Tig reveals that he has kidnapped Jord and Demma, refusing to release them unless Thall reveals the location of the Trigon One. Thall does so, but the group is imprisoned with Jord—until the droids outsmart the guard. When Tig pilots the space weapon back to the base of his father, Sise, he discovers that its controls have been sabotaged and programmed to crash into the base. Jord goes to commandeer an escape ship while Thall and Kea rescue Demma, and the droids do what they can to help. "A Race to the Finish" The team goes to Boonta to take part in a speeder race, but is pursued by the Fromm gang and forced to crash land. Sise hires Boba Fett to help exact his revenge, despite Jabba the Hutt having placed a bounty on the crimelord. Tig plants a thermal detonator on the White Witch, and Fett chases Thall into the race. In the melee, the explosive is used to destroy Fett's speeder. The despondent bounty hunter rounds up the Fromms to take to Jabba. Thall, Jord and Kea are offered careers with a speeder corporation, but refuse when they realize that R2-D2 and C-3PO would have to be reprogrammed. The droids leave their masters so they can take the job. "The Lost Prince" C-3PO, R2-D2, and their new master, Jann Tosh, befriend a mysterious alien disguised as a droid. Captured by crimelord Kleb Zellock, they are forced to mine Nergon-14, a valuable unstable mineral used in proton torpedoes, which Zellock plans to sell to the Empire. In the mines they meet Sollag, who identifies their friend as Mon Julpa, Prince of the Tammuz-an. Together they defeat the crimelord and escape the mines before they are destroyed in a Nergon-14 explosion. "The New King" The droids, Jann, Mon Julpa, and Sollag, along with freighter pilot Jessica Meade, travel to Tammuz-an to thwart Ko Zatec-Cha, an evil vizier with ambitions to seize the throne of the planet Tammuz-an. To achieve his sinister plans, Zatec-Cha hires bounty hunter IG-88 to capture Mon Julpa and his royal scepter, but the heroes manage to recover it, and Mon Julpa is made king of Tammuz-an. "The Pirates of Tarnoonga" While delivering fuel to Tammuz-an, Jann, Jessica, and the droids are captured by the pirate Kybo Ren-Cha. Aboard his stolen Star Destroyer, Kybo Ren takes them to the water planet Tarnoonga. After the heroes escape a giant sea monster, Jann and the droids distract the pirates by going after a decoy while Jessica recaptures the real fuel. After Jann and the droids escape, Mon Julpa sends forces to capture Ren. "The Revenge of Kybo Ren" Kybo Ren is freed and he kidnaps Gerin, the daughter of Lord Toda, Mon Julpa's political rival. The droids, Jann, and Jessica go to the planet Bogden to rescue Gerin before Mon Julpa is handed over as ransom. Ren's men arrive with Julpa, but Lord Toda and a squad of Tammuz-an soldiers have smuggled aboard Ren's own ship. Ren is sent back to prison and an alliance is forged between Julpa and Toda. Jessica decides to return to her freighter business and says goodbye to her friends. "Coby and the Starhunters" C-3PO and R2-D2 are assigned to chaperone Lord Toda's young son, Coby, only to be captured by smugglers. They are eventually rescued by Jann, only for the droids to learn that he has been accepted into the Imperial Space Academy, leaving them once again masterless and on their own. "Tail of the Roon Comets" Mungo Baobab, with R2-D2 and C-3PO in tow, begins searching for the powerful Roonstones, but runs into an Imperial entanglement. "The Roon Games" Having escaped, Mungo, C-3PO and R2-D2 once again make their way for the planet Roon, but it turns out that they have not seen the last of General Koong, a de facto governor desperate to win the support of the Empire. "Across the Roon Sea" Mungo has just about given up hope on finding Roonstones, and accompanied by the droids, is about to return to his home planet, Manda. "The Frozen Citadel" Mungo and the droids continue their search for the Roonstones, but Koong makes trouble for them. "The Great Heep" C-3PO and R2-D2 travel to Biitu with their new master, Mungo Baobab, and confront an Abominor-class droid named the Great Heep, which builds onto itself from the remains of other droids.

Star Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith Star Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith is a 2005 American epic space opera film that is the sequel to The Phantom Menace (1999) and Attack of the Clones (2002). It is the sixth film in the Star Wars film series, the third installment in the Star Wars prequel trilogy, and third chronological chapter of the "Skywalker Saga". It is written and directed by George Lucas, who also served as executive producer. The film stars Ewan McGregor, Natalie Portman, Hayden Christensen, Ian McDiarmid, Samuel L. Jackson, Christopher Lee, Anthony Daniels, Kenny Baker, and Frank Oz. Revenge of the Sith is set three years after the onset of the Clone Wars as established in Attack of the Clones. The Jedi are spread across the galaxy in a full-scale war against the Separatists. The Jedi Council dispatches Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi on a mission to defeat General Grievous, the head of the Separatist army and Count Dooku's former apprentice, to put an end to the war. Meanwhile, after having visions of his wife Padmé Amidala dying in childbirth, Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker is tasked by the Council to spy on Palpatine, the Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic and, secretly, the Dark Lord of the Sith Darth Sidious. Sidious manipulates Anakin into turning to the dark side of the Force and becoming his apprentice, Darth Vader, with wide-ranging consequences for the galaxy. Lucas began writing the script before production of Attack of the Clones ended, citing that he wanted the end of the trilogy to have similar aspects to a romantic tragedy, thus building into Darth Vader's state at the beginning of the next film. Production of Revenge of the Sith started in June 2003, and filming took place in Australia with additional locations in Thailand, Switzerland, China, Italy, and the United Kingdom. Revenge of the Sith premiered on May 15, 2005, at the Cannes Film Festival, then released worldwide on May 19, 2005. The film received mostly positive reviews from critics, with most regarding it as the best film of the trilogy, although some criticism was reserved for Lucas's screenplay and Christensen's performance. It broke several box office records during its opening week and went on to earn $868.4 million worldwide, making it the second-highest-grossing film in the Star Wars franchise at the time. It was the highest-grossing film in the U.S. and the second-highest-grossing film worldwide in 2005. It also holds the record for the highest opening-day gross on a Thursday, making $50 million. It is also the final Star Wars film to be distributed by Fox, although it would be also acquired by Disney five years after it acquired Lucasfilm. Plot Orbiting above Coruscant, Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker lead a mission to rescue Supreme Chancellor Palpatine from the cyborg Separatist commander General Grievous. After infiltrating Grievous' flagship, Obi-Wan and Anakin battle the Sith Lord Count Dooku, whom Anakin decapitates at Palpatine's insistence. Grievous escapes the damaged ship before Obi-Wan and Anakin crash-land it on Coruscant. There, Anakin reunites with his wife Padmé Amidala, who tells him that she is pregnant. Soon after, Anakin has visions of Padmé dying in childbirth. Palpatine appoints Anakin to the Jedi Council as his own personal representative. Distrusting Palpatine, the Council agrees but refuses to make Anakin a Jedi Master. They instead instruct him to spy on Palpatine, diminishing Anakin's faith in the Jedi. Meanwhile, on Utapau, Grievous relocates the Separatist leaders to the volcanic planet Mustafar. Obi-Wan travels to Utapau where he confronts and kills Grievous, while Yoda travels to the Wookiee planet of Kashyyyk to defend it from the Separatist droid attack on the Wookiees. Palpatine tempts Anakin with the dark side of the Force, promising it can save Padmé. Anakin deduces that Palpatine is the Sith Lord behind the Clone Wars and reports his treachery to Mace Windu, who confronts and subdues Palpatine, leaving the latter disfigured. Desperate to save Padmé, Anakin prevents Windu from killing Palpatine by slicing his right hand off. Palpatine then sends Windu falling to his death. Anakin pledges himself to the Sith, and Palpatine knights him as Darth Vader. Palpatine issues Order 66, which commands the clone troopers to kill their commanding Jedi generals across the galaxy, while Vader and a battalion of clone troopers kill the remaining Jedi in the Jedi Temple. Vader then travels to Mustafar to assassinate the Separatist leaders, while Palpatine declares himself Emperor before the Galactic Senate, transforming the Republic into the Galactic Empire. He denounces the Jedi as traitors. Obi-Wan and Yoda return to Coruscant and learn that Anakin has turned to the dark side. Yoda instructs Obi-Wan to confront Vader while he faces Palpatine. Obi-Wan seeks out Padmé to discover Vader's whereabouts and reveals his treachery. Padmé travels to Mustafar—unaware Obi-Wan has stowed aboard her ship—and pleads with Vader to abandon the dark side. When Obi-Wan emerges, an enraged Vader believes Padmé has betrayed him and strangles her. Obi-Wan and Vader engage in a lightsaber duel, which ends with Obi-Wan severing Vader's left arm and both legs. Vader is then burned alive by a nearby lava flow as Obi-Wan retrieves Vader's lightsaber before leaving him for dead. On Coruscant, Yoda battles Palpatine, culminating in a stalemate. Yoda flees with Senator Bail Organa and regroups with Obi-Wan and Padmé on the planetoid Polis Massa. Padmé gives birth to twins, whom she names Luke and Leia. She dies soon after, still believing there is good in Anakin. Palpatine recovers a barely alive Vader. On Coruscant, Vader's mutilated body is treated and encased in a black, armored life-support suit. When he asks about Padmé, Palpatine says Vader killed her out of rage, leaving Vader devastated. Obi-Wan and Yoda conceal the twins' birth from the Sith and retreat into exile until the Empire can be challenged. As Padmé's funeral is underway on Naboo, Palpatine and Vader supervise the construction of the Death Star. Bail takes Leia to Alderaan to raise her as his daughter. Obi-Wan delivers Luke to his step-uncle and step-aunt, Owen and Beru Lars, on Tatooine. Obi-Wan settles nearby as a recluse while watching over young Luke. Cast Peter Mayhew, Oliver Ford Davies, Ahmed Best, and Silas Carson reprise their roles as Chewbacca, Sio Bibble, Jar Jar Binks, and Nute Gunray and Ki-Adi-Mundi, respectively, from the previous films. Joel Edgerton and Bonnie Piesse also make cameo appearances, reprising their roles as Owen and Beru Lars respectively from Attack of the Clones. Sound engineer Matthew Wood provides the voice of General Grievous, the fearsome cyborg commander of the Separatists' droid army, who had been trained in wielding a lightsaber by Count Dooku. Wood took over the role, after Gary Oldman was originally cast in the role, but had to drop out of the production due to scheduling conflicts; Oldman had completed some voice-over work. Temuera Morrison portrays Commander Cody and the rest of the clone troopers. Bruce Spence portrays Tion Medon, local administrator of Utapau. Jeremy Bulloch (who played Boba Fett in The Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Jedi) appears as Captain Colton, the pilot of the CR70 corvette Tantive III. Genevieve O'Reilly portrays senator Mon Mothma, though her speaking scene was ultimately cut. Rohan Nichol portrays Captain Raymus Antilles. Wayne Pygram appears as a young Wilhuff Tarkin, and stunt coordinator Nick Gillard appears as a Jedi named Cin Drallig (his name spelled backward, without the 'k'). Editor Roger Barton's son Aidan Barton portrays Luke Skywalker and Leia Organa as infants. Director and Star Wars creator George Lucas has a cameo as Baron Papanoida, a blue-faced alien in attendance at the Coruscant opera house. Lucas' son Jett portrays Zett Jukassa, a young Jedi-in-training. One of Lucas' daughters, Amanda, appears as Terr Taneel, seen in a security hologram, while his other daughter Katie plays a blue-skinned Pantoran named Chi Eekway, visible when Palpatine arrives at the Senate after being saved by the Jedi and talking to Baron Papanoida at the opera house. Christian Simpson appeared as a stunt double for Hayden Christensen.

Star Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith Star Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith is a 2005 American epic space opera film that is the sequel to The Phantom Menace (1999) and Attack of the Clones (2002). It is the sixth film in the Star Wars film series, the third installment in the Star Wars prequel trilogy, and third chronological chapter of the "Skywalker Saga". It is written and directed by George Lucas, who also served as executive producer. The film stars Ewan McGregor, Natalie Portman, Hayden Christensen, Ian McDiarmid, Samuel L. Jackson, Christopher Lee, Anthony Daniels, Kenny Baker, and Frank Oz. Revenge of the Sith is set three years after the onset of the Clone Wars as established in Attack of the Clones. The Jedi are spread across the galaxy in a full-scale war against the Separatists. The Jedi Council dispatches Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi on a mission to defeat General Grievous, the head of the Separatist army and Count Dooku's former apprentice, to put an end to the war. Meanwhile, after having visions of his wife Padmé Amidala dying in childbirth, Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker is tasked by the Council to spy on Palpatine, the Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic and, secretly, the Dark Lord of the Sith Darth Sidious. Sidious manipulates Anakin into turning to the dark side of the Force and becoming his apprentice, Darth Vader, with wide-ranging consequences for the galaxy. Lucas began writing the script before production of Attack of the Clones ended, citing that he wanted the end of the trilogy to have similar aspects to a romantic tragedy, thus building into Darth Vader's state at the beginning of the next film. Production of Revenge of the Sith started in June 2003, and filming took place in Australia with additional locations in Thailand, Switzerland, China, Italy, and the United Kingdom. Revenge of the Sith premiered on May 15, 2005, at the Cannes Film Festival, then released worldwide on May 19, 2005. The film received mostly positive reviews from critics, with most regarding it as the best film of the trilogy, although some criticism was reserved for Lucas's screenplay and Christensen's performance. It broke several box office records during its opening week and went on to earn $868.4 million worldwide, making it the second-highest-grossing film in the Star Wars franchise at the time. It was the highest-grossing film in the U.S. and the second-highest-grossing film worldwide in 2005. It also holds the record for the highest opening-day gross on a Thursday, making $50 million. It is also the final Star Wars film to be distributed by Fox, although it would be also acquired by Disney five years after it acquired Lucasfilm. Plot Orbiting above Coruscant, Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker lead a mission to rescue Supreme Chancellor Palpatine from the cyborg Separatist commander General Grievous. After infiltrating Grievous' flagship, Obi-Wan and Anakin battle the Sith Lord Count Dooku, whom Anakin decapitates at Palpatine's insistence. Grievous escapes the damaged ship before Obi-Wan and Anakin crash-land it on Coruscant. There, Anakin reunites with his wife Padmé Amidala, who tells him that she is pregnant. Soon after, Anakin has visions of Padmé dying in childbirth. Palpatine appoints Anakin to the Jedi Council as his own personal representative. Distrusting Palpatine, the Council agrees but refuses to make Anakin a Jedi Master. They instead instruct him to spy on Palpatine, diminishing Anakin's faith in the Jedi. Meanwhile, on Utapau, Grievous relocates the Separatist leaders to the volcanic planet Mustafar. Obi-Wan travels to Utapau where he confronts and kills Grievous, while Yoda travels to the Wookiee planet of Kashyyyk to defend it from the Separatist droid attack on the Wookiees. Palpatine tempts Anakin with the dark side of the Force, promising it can save Padmé. Anakin deduces that Palpatine is the Sith Lord behind the Clone Wars and reports his treachery to Mace Windu, who confronts and subdues Palpatine, leaving the latter disfigured. Desperate to save Padmé, Anakin prevents Windu from killing Palpatine by slicing his right hand off. Palpatine then sends Windu falling to his death. Anakin pledges himself to the Sith, and Palpatine knights him as Darth Vader. Palpatine issues Order 66, which commands the clone troopers to kill their commanding Jedi generals across the galaxy, while Vader and a battalion of clone troopers kill the remaining Jedi in the Jedi Temple. Vader then travels to Mustafar to assassinate the Separatist leaders, while Palpatine declares himself Emperor before the Galactic Senate, transforming the Republic into the Galactic Empire. He denounces the Jedi as traitors. Obi-Wan and Yoda return to Coruscant and learn that Anakin has turned to the dark side. Yoda instructs Obi-Wan to confront Vader while he faces Palpatine. Obi-Wan seeks out Padmé to discover Vader's whereabouts and reveals his treachery. Padmé travels to Mustafar—unaware Obi-Wan has stowed aboard her ship—and pleads with Vader to abandon the dark side. When Obi-Wan emerges, an enraged Vader believes Padmé has betrayed him and strangles her. Obi-Wan and Vader engage in a lightsaber duel, which ends with Obi-Wan severing Vader's left arm and both legs. Vader is then burned alive by a nearby lava flow as Obi-Wan retrieves Vader's lightsaber before leaving him for dead. On Coruscant, Yoda battles Palpatine, culminating in a stalemate. Yoda flees with Senator Bail Organa and regroups with Obi-Wan and Padmé on the planetoid Polis Massa. Padmé gives birth to twins, whom she names Luke and Leia. She dies soon after, still believing there is good in Anakin. Palpatine recovers a barely alive Vader. On Coruscant, Vader's mutilated body is treated and encased in a black, armored life-support suit. When he asks about Padmé, Palpatine says Vader killed her out of rage, leaving Vader devastated. Obi-Wan and Yoda conceal the twins' birth from the Sith and retreat into exile until the Empire can be challenged. As Padmé's funeral is underway on Naboo, Palpatine and Vader supervise the construction of the Death Star. Bail takes Leia to Alderaan to raise her as his daughter. Obi-Wan delivers Luke to his step-uncle and step-aunt, Owen and Beru Lars, on Tatooine. Obi-Wan settles nearby as a recluse while watching over young Luke. Cast Peter Mayhew, Oliver Ford Davies, Ahmed Best, and Silas Carson reprise their roles as Chewbacca, Sio Bibble, Jar Jar Binks, and Nute Gunray and Ki-Adi-Mundi, respectively, from the previous films. Joel Edgerton and Bonnie Piesse also make cameo appearances, reprising their roles as Owen and Beru Lars respectively from Attack of the Clones. Sound engineer Matthew Wood provides the voice of General Grievous, the fearsome cyborg commander of the Separatists' droid army, who had been trained in wielding a lightsaber by Count Dooku. Wood took over the role, after Gary Oldman was originally cast in the role, but had to drop out of the production due to scheduling conflicts; Oldman had completed some voice-over work. Temuera Morrison portrays Commander Cody and the rest of the clone troopers. Bruce Spence portrays Tion Medon, local administrator of Utapau. Jeremy Bulloch (who played Boba Fett in The Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Jedi) appears as Captain Colton, the pilot of the CR70 corvette Tantive III. Genevieve O'Reilly portrays senator Mon Mothma, though her speaking scene was ultimately cut. Rohan Nichol portrays Captain Raymus Antilles. Wayne Pygram appears as a young Wilhuff Tarkin, and stunt coordinator Nick Gillard appears as a Jedi named Cin Drallig (his name spelled backward, without the 'k'). Editor Roger Barton's son Aidan Barton portrays Luke Skywalker and Leia Organa as infants. Director and Star Wars creator George Lucas has a cameo as Baron Papanoida, a blue-faced alien in attendance at the Coruscant opera house. Lucas' son Jett portrays Zett Jukassa, a young Jedi-in-training. One of Lucas' daughters, Amanda, appears as Terr Taneel, seen in a security hologram, while his other daughter Katie plays a blue-skinned Pantoran named Chi Eekway, visible when Palpatine arrives at the Senate after being saved by the Jedi and talking to Baron Papanoida at the opera house. Christian Simpson appeared as a stunt double for Hayden Christensen.

Star Wars: Episode II – Attack of the Clones Star Wars: Episode II – Attack of the Clones is a 2002 American epic space opera film directed by George Lucas and written by Lucas and Jonathan Hales. The sequel to The Phantom Menace (1999), it is the fifth film in the Star Wars film series and second chronological chapter of the "Skywalker Saga". The film stars Ewan McGregor, Natalie Portman, Hayden Christensen, Ian McDiarmid, Samuel L. Jackson, Christopher Lee, Anthony Daniels, Kenny Baker, and Frank Oz. The story is set ten years after The Phantom Menace, as thousands of planetary systems slowly secede from the Galactic Republic and join the newly formed Confederacy of Independent Systems, led by former Jedi Master Count Dooku. With the galaxy on the brink of civil war, Obi-Wan Kenobi investigates a mysterious assassination attempt on Senator Padmé Amidala, which leads him to uncover a clone army in service of the Republic and the truth behind the Separatist movement. Meanwhile, his apprentice Anakin Skywalker is assigned to protect Amidala and develops a secret romance with her. Soon, the trio witness the onset of a new threat to the galaxy: The Clone Wars. Development of Attack of the Clones began in March 2000, some months after the release of The Phantom Menace. By June 2000, Lucas and Hales completed a draft of the script, and principal photography took place from June to September 2000. The film crew primarily shot at Fox Studios Australia in Sydney, Australia, with additional footage filmed in Tunisia, Spain, and Italy. It was one of the first motion pictures shot completely on a high-definition digital 24-frame system. The film was released in the United States on May 16, 2002. It received mixed reviews from critics; the film's increased focus on action was praised, while the characters and dialogue were regarded more critically. It performed well at the box office, making $653.8 million worldwide. Yet, it became the first Star Wars film to get outgrossed in its year of release, placing third domestically after Spider-Man and The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers and fourth-highest-grossing worldwide after the former two films and Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets. Revenge of the Sith (2005) followed Attack of the Clones, concluding the Star Wars prequel trilogy. Plot Ten years after the battle at Naboo, the Galactic Republic is threatened by a Separatist movement organized by former Jedi Master Count Dooku. Former Queen turned Senator Padmé Amidala travels to Coruscant to vote against a motion to create an army to assist the Jedi against the growing threat. Narrowly avoiding an assassination attempt upon arrival, she is placed under the protection of Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi and his Padawan Apprentice Anakin Skywalker. The pair thwart a second assassination attempt on Padmé and subdue the assassin, Zam Wesell, whose employer, a bounty hunter, kills her before she reveals his identity. The Jedi Council instructs Obi-Wan to find the bounty hunter, while Anakin is tasked to protect Padmé and escort her to Naboo. Despite the Jedi Code that forbids attachments, the two start to fall in love. Obi-Wan's search leads to Kamino, an ocean planet. There he discovers a clone army is being produced for the Republic under the name of Sifo-Dyas, a deceased Jedi Master. The bounty hunter Jango Fett serves as their genetic template. Obi-Wan deduces Jango is the bounty hunter he is seeking and places a homing beacon on Jango's ship, Slave I. He then follows Jango and his clone son Boba to the planet Geonosis. Meanwhile, Anakin is troubled by visions of his mother Shmi in pain, and returns to his homeworld of Tatooine with Padmé to save her. His former owner Watto reveals that he sold Shmi to a moisture farmer named Cliegg Lars, who then freed and married her. Cliegg says Tusken Raiders abducted Shmi one month earlier and she is likely dead. Anakin finds her at the Tusken campsite, barely alive. After she dies in his arms, an enraged Anakin massacres the entire tribe. He later confesses his actions to Padmé and vows to prevent the deaths of those he loves. On Geonosis, Obi-Wan discovers a Separatist gathering led by Count Dooku, who is developing a droid army with Trade Federation Viceroy Nute Gunray, who ordered the assassination attempts on Padmé. Obi-Wan transmits his findings to the Jedi Council but is captured by Separatist droids. Dooku meets Obi-Wan in his cell and explains that the Republic is under the control of the Sith Lord Darth Sidious. He invites Obi-Wan to help him stop Sidious, but Obi-Wan refuses. Senate Representative Jar Jar Binks proposes a successful vote to grant emergency powers to Chancellor Palpatine, allowing the clone army to be officially brought into action as the defence force of the Republic. Anakin and Padmé head to Geonosis to rescue Obi-Wan. While in the Geonosian droid factory, Anakin loses his lightsaber before Jango captures them. Dooku sentences the trio to be killed by alien beasts in the arena. A battalion of clone troopers led by Yoda, Mace Windu, and other Jedi suddenly arrive; Windu beheads Jango during the ensuing battle. Obi-Wan and Anakin intercept Dooku and engage in a lightsaber duel. Dooku injures Obi-Wan and severs Anakin's right arm; Yoda intervenes and defends them. To distract Yoda, Dooku uses the Force in an attempt to kill Anakin and Obi-Wan. Dooku escapes via his Solar Sailer to Coruscant and delivers the schematics for a superweapon to Sidious. As the Jedi acknowledge the beginning of the Clone Wars, Anakin is fitted with a cybernetic arm and secretly marries Padmé on Naboo with R2D2 and C-3PO as their only witnesses. Cast Pernilla August, Ahmed Best, Oliver Ford Davies, and Andy Secombe reprise their roles from The Phantom Menace as Shmi Skywalker, Jar Jar Binks, Sio Bibble, and Watto, respectively. Silas Carson also reprises his role from that film as both Nute Gunray, the Viceroy of the Trade Federation; and Ki-Adi-Mundi, a Cerean Jedi Master sitting on the Jedi Council. Jimmy Smits portrays Bail Organa, a senator from Alderaan. Daniel Logan portrays a young Boba Fett, Jango Fett's clone and adopted son. Jack Thompson, Joel Edgerton and Bonnie Piesse appear as members of the Lars family and homestead; respectively as Cliegg Lars, Shmi's husband, Owen's father and Anakin's stepfather; Owen Lars, Cliegg's son, Shmi's stepson, and Anakin's stepbrother; and Beru Whitesun, Owen's girlfriend. Leeanna Walsman appears as Zam Wesell, a shapeshifting Clawdite bounty hunter and partner of Jango Fett, who was given the task of assassinating Padmé. Jay Laga'aia appears as Gregar Typho, Padmé's newly appointed captain of security. Rose Byrne and Alethea McGrath briefly appear as Dormé, Padmé's handmaiden and as Jocasta Nu, the librarian at the Jedi Temple, respectively. Ronald Falk provides the voice of Dexter Jettster, Obi-Wan's Besalisk friend who runs a diner on Coruscant and informs him about Kamino. Daniels and Best also make cameo appearances as Dannl Faytonni and Achk Med-Beq, respectively, attendees of the Coruscant Outlander Club who witness Anakin and Obi-Wan capturing Zam Wesell. E! reported that Lucas had asked NSYNC to film a small background cameo appearance, in order to satisfy his daughters. They were subsequently cut out of the film in post-production, although briefly visible during a crowd shot from above. The end credits erroneously list Alan Ruscoe as playing Neimoidian senator Lott Dod. The character was actually another Neimoidian, played by an uncredited David Healy and voiced by Christopher Truswell. Archival recordings of Liam Neeson as Qui-Gon Jinn from The Phantom Menace, appear as a disembodied ghostly voice heard by Anakin through the Force as he was slaughtering the Tusken Raiders; Qui-Gon also appears earlier in the film in the form of a statue in his likeness during a background scene when Obi-Wan visits the Jedi Archives. Fiona Johnson reprised her The Matrix (1999) role as the Woman in the Red Dress in an Easter egg cameo appearance, with her character named "Hayde Gofai" in later Star Wars media, briefly offering a seductive look to Anakin Skywalker at the Outlander Club.

Star Wars: Episode II – Attack of the Clones Star Wars: Episode II – Attack of the Clones is a 2002 American epic space opera film directed by George Lucas and written by Lucas and Jonathan Hales. The sequel to The Phantom Menace (1999), it is the fifth film in the Star Wars film series and second chronological chapter of the "Skywalker Saga". The film stars Ewan McGregor, Natalie Portman, Hayden Christensen, Ian McDiarmid, Samuel L. Jackson, Christopher Lee, Anthony Daniels, Kenny Baker, and Frank Oz. The story is set ten years after The Phantom Menace, as thousands of planetary systems slowly secede from the Galactic Republic and join the newly formed Confederacy of Independent Systems, led by former Jedi Master Count Dooku. With the galaxy on the brink of civil war, Obi-Wan Kenobi investigates a mysterious assassination attempt on Senator Padmé Amidala, which leads him to uncover a clone army in service of the Republic and the truth behind the Separatist movement. Meanwhile, his apprentice Anakin Skywalker is assigned to protect Amidala and develops a secret romance with her. Soon, the trio witness the onset of a new threat to the galaxy: The Clone Wars. Development of Attack of the Clones began in March 2000, some months after the release of The Phantom Menace. By June 2000, Lucas and Hales completed a draft of the script, and principal photography took place from June to September 2000. The film crew primarily shot at Fox Studios Australia in Sydney, Australia, with additional footage filmed in Tunisia, Spain, and Italy. It was one of the first motion pictures shot completely on a high-definition digital 24-frame system. The film was released in the United States on May 16, 2002. It received mixed reviews from critics; the film's increased focus on action was praised, while the characters and dialogue were regarded more critically. It performed well at the box office, making $653.8 million worldwide. Yet, it became the first Star Wars film to get outgrossed in its year of release, placing third domestically after Spider-Man and The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers and fourth-highest-grossing worldwide after the former two films and Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets. Revenge of the Sith (2005) followed Attack of the Clones, concluding the Star Wars prequel trilogy. Plot Ten years after the battle at Naboo, the Galactic Republic is threatened by a Separatist movement organized by former Jedi Master Count Dooku. Former Queen turned Senator Padmé Amidala travels to Coruscant to vote against a motion to create an army to assist the Jedi against the growing threat. Narrowly avoiding an assassination attempt upon arrival, she is placed under the protection of Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi and his Padawan Apprentice Anakin Skywalker. The pair thwart a second assassination attempt on Padmé and subdue the assassin, Zam Wesell, whose employer, a bounty hunter, kills her before she reveals his identity. The Jedi Council instructs Obi-Wan to find the bounty hunter, while Anakin is tasked to protect Padmé and escort her to Naboo. Despite the Jedi Code that forbids attachments, the two start to fall in love. Obi-Wan's search leads to Kamino, an ocean planet. There he discovers a clone army is being produced for the Republic under the name of Sifo-Dyas, a deceased Jedi Master. The bounty hunter Jango Fett serves as their genetic template. Obi-Wan deduces Jango is the bounty hunter he is seeking and places a homing beacon on Jango's ship, Slave I. He then follows Jango and his clone son Boba to the planet Geonosis. Meanwhile, Anakin is troubled by visions of his mother Shmi in pain, and returns to his homeworld of Tatooine with Padmé to save her. His former owner Watto reveals that he sold Shmi to a moisture farmer named Cliegg Lars, who then freed and married her. Cliegg says Tusken Raiders abducted Shmi one month earlier and she is likely dead. Anakin finds her at the Tusken campsite, barely alive. After she dies in his arms, an enraged Anakin massacres the entire tribe. He later confesses his actions to Padmé and vows to prevent the deaths of those he loves. On Geonosis, Obi-Wan discovers a Separatist gathering led by Count Dooku, who is developing a droid army with Trade Federation Viceroy Nute Gunray, who ordered the assassination attempts on Padmé. Obi-Wan transmits his findings to the Jedi Council but is captured by Separatist droids. Dooku meets Obi-Wan in his cell and explains that the Republic is under the control of the Sith Lord Darth Sidious. He invites Obi-Wan to help him stop Sidious, but Obi-Wan refuses. Senate Representative Jar Jar Binks proposes a successful vote to grant emergency powers to Chancellor Palpatine, allowing the clone army to be officially brought into action as the defence force of the Republic. Anakin and Padmé head to Geonosis to rescue Obi-Wan. While in the Geonosian droid factory, Anakin loses his lightsaber before Jango captures them. Dooku sentences the trio to be killed by alien beasts in the arena. A battalion of clone troopers led by Yoda, Mace Windu, and other Jedi suddenly arrive; Windu beheads Jango during the ensuing battle. Obi-Wan and Anakin intercept Dooku and engage in a lightsaber duel. Dooku injures Obi-Wan and severs Anakin's right arm; Yoda intervenes and defends them. To distract Yoda, Dooku uses the Force in an attempt to kill Anakin and Obi-Wan. Dooku escapes via his Solar Sailer to Coruscant and delivers the schematics for a superweapon to Sidious. As the Jedi acknowledge the beginning of the Clone Wars, Anakin is fitted with a cybernetic arm and secretly marries Padmé on Naboo with R2D2 and C-3PO as their only witnesses. Cast Pernilla August, Ahmed Best, Oliver Ford Davies, and Andy Secombe reprise their roles from The Phantom Menace as Shmi Skywalker, Jar Jar Binks, Sio Bibble, and Watto, respectively. Silas Carson also reprises his role from that film as both Nute Gunray, the Viceroy of the Trade Federation; and Ki-Adi-Mundi, a Cerean Jedi Master sitting on the Jedi Council. Jimmy Smits portrays Bail Organa, a senator from Alderaan. Daniel Logan portrays a young Boba Fett, Jango Fett's clone and adopted son. Jack Thompson, Joel Edgerton and Bonnie Piesse appear as members of the Lars family and homestead; respectively as Cliegg Lars, Shmi's husband, Owen's father and Anakin's stepfather; Owen Lars, Cliegg's son, Shmi's stepson, and Anakin's stepbrother; and Beru Whitesun, Owen's girlfriend. Leeanna Walsman appears as Zam Wesell, a shapeshifting Clawdite bounty hunter and partner of Jango Fett, who was given the task of assassinating Padmé. Jay Laga'aia appears as Gregar Typho, Padmé's newly appointed captain of security. Rose Byrne and Alethea McGrath briefly appear as Dormé, Padmé's handmaiden and as Jocasta Nu, the librarian at the Jedi Temple, respectively. Ronald Falk provides the voice of Dexter Jettster, Obi-Wan's Besalisk friend who runs a diner on Coruscant and informs him about Kamino. Daniels and Best also make cameo appearances as Dannl Faytonni and Achk Med-Beq, respectively, attendees of the Coruscant Outlander Club who witness Anakin and Obi-Wan capturing Zam Wesell. E! reported that Lucas had asked NSYNC to film a small background cameo appearance, in order to satisfy his daughters. They were subsequently cut out of the film in post-production, although briefly visible during a crowd shot from above. The end credits erroneously list Alan Ruscoe as playing Neimoidian senator Lott Dod. The character was actually another Neimoidian, played by an uncredited David Healy and voiced by Christopher Truswell. Archival recordings of Liam Neeson as Qui-Gon Jinn from The Phantom Menace, appear as a disembodied ghostly voice heard by Anakin through the Force as he was slaughtering the Tusken Raiders; Qui-Gon also appears earlier in the film in the form of a statue in his likeness during a background scene when Obi-Wan visits the Jedi Archives. Fiona Johnson reprised her The Matrix (1999) role as the Woman in the Red Dress in an Easter egg cameo appearance, with her character named "Hayde Gofai" in later Star Wars media, briefly offering a seductive look to Anakin Skywalker at the Outlander Club.

Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace is a 1999 American epic space opera film written and directed by George Lucas. It stars Liam Neeson, Ewan McGregor, Natalie Portman, Jake Lloyd, Ahmed Best, Ian McDiarmid, Anthony Daniels, Kenny Baker, Pernilla August, and Frank Oz. It is the fourth film in the Star Wars film series, the first film of the prequel trilogy and the first chronological chapter of the "Skywalker Saga". Set 32 years before the original trilogy (13 years before the formation of the Galactic Empire), during the era of the Galactic Republic, the plot follows Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn and his apprentice Obi-Wan Kenobi as they try to protect Queen Padmé Amidala of Naboo in hopes of securing a peaceful end to an interplanetary trade dispute. Joined by Anakin Skywalker—a young slave with unusually strong natural powers of the Force—they simultaneously contend with the mysterious return of the Sith. The film was produced by Lucasfilm and distributed by 20th Century Fox. Following the release of Return of the Jedi (1983), talks of a follow-up were proposed, but Lucas was unmotivated to return to the franchise. During the hiatus, the backstories he created for the characters, particularly Anakin's, sparked interest in him to develop a prequel trilogy during the 1990s. After he determined that computer-generated imagery (CGI) had advanced to the level he wanted for the prequel trilogy's visual effects, Lucas began writing The Phantom Menace in 1993, and production began in 1994. Filming started in June 1997—at locations at Leavesden Film Studios and the Tunisian desert—and ended in September. The film marked Lucas's first directorial effort after a 22-year hiatus following the original Star Wars in 1977. The Phantom Menace was released in theaters on May 19, 1999, almost 16 years after the premiere of Return of the Jedi. The film's premiere was extensively covered by media and was widely anticipated because of the large cultural following the Star Wars saga had cultivated. Upon its release, The Phantom Menace received mixed reviews from critics. While the visual effects were praised, its exposition and characters—particularly Jar Jar Binks—received criticism. The film was a box-office success and broke numerous records. It grossed $924 million worldwide during its initial theatrical run, becoming the highest-grossing film of 1999, the second-highest-grossing film of all-time, and in North America (behind Titanic and Star Wars), as well as the highest-grossing Star Wars film at the time (not factoring in inflation). The film has been re-released several times, including a 2012 3D reissue which brought its overall worldwide gross to over $1 billion. Attack of the Clones (2002) and Revenge of the Sith (2005) followed The Phantom Menace, rounding out the Star Wars prequel trilogy. Plot The Trade Federation has upset order in the Galactic Republic by blockading the planet Naboo in secret preparation for a full-scale invasion. The Republic's leader, Supreme Chancellor Finis Valorum, dispatches Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn and his apprentice, Obi-Wan Kenobi, to negotiate with Trade Federation Viceroy Nute Gunray. Darth Sidious, a Sith Lord and the Trade Federation's secret benefactor, orders the Viceroy to kill the Jedi and begin their invasion with an army of battle droids. Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan escape and flee to Naboo. Amid the invasion, Qui-Gon rescues a bumbling Gungan outcast, Jar Jar Binks. Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan fail to persuade the Gungan leader Boss Nass to aid the planet's surface dwellers, but manage to obtain Jar Jar's guidance and underwater transport to Theed, the capital city of Naboo. After rescuing Queen Padmé Amidala, the group make their escape from Naboo aboard her Royal Starship, intending to reach the Republic capital planet of Coruscant. The ship is damaged passing through the Federation blockade, and the group lands for repairs on the outlying desert planet of Tatooine, situated beyond the Republic's jurisdiction. Qui-Gon, Jar Jar, astromech droid R2-D2, and Padmé—disguised as one of her handmaidens—visit the settlement of Mos Espa to purchase a new part for the hyperdrive. They encounter a junk dealer, Watto, and his nine-year-old slave Anakin Skywalker, a gifted pilot and engineer who has built a protocol droid, C-3PO. Qui-Gon senses a strong presence of the Force within Anakin and is convinced that he is the prophesied "Chosen One," destined to restore balance to the Force. With Watto refusing to accept payment in Republic currency, Qui-Gon wagers both the required hyperdrive part and Anakin's freedom in a podrace. Anakin wins the race and joins the group to be trained as a Jedi, leaving behind his mother, Shmi. En route to their starship, Qui-Gon is attacked by Darth Maul, Sidious's apprentice, who was sent to capture Amidala. After a brief lightsaber duel, Qui-Gon escapes on board the starship with the others. Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan escort Padmé to Coruscant so she can plead her people's case to Valorum and the Galactic Senate. Qui-Gon asks the Jedi Council for permission to train Anakin as a Jedi, but the Council refuses, concerned that Anakin is vulnerable to the dark side of the Force. Undaunted, Qui-Gon vows to train Anakin anyway. Naboo's Senator Palpatine persuades Amidala to call for a vote of no confidence in Valorum to elect a more capable leader and to resolve the crisis. Though she is successful in pushing for the vote, Amidala grows frustrated with the corruption in the Senate and decides to return to Naboo. Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan are ordered by the Jedi Council to accompany the queen and investigate the return of the Sith, whom they had believed to be extinct for more than a millennium. On Naboo, Padmé reveals herself as the queen before the Gungans and persuades them to join in an alliance against the Trade Federation. Jar Jar is promoted to general and joins his tribe in a battle against the droid army, while Padmé leads the search for Gunray in Theed. During a battle in a hangar, Anakin flees to a starfighter and accidentally triggers its autopilot, traveling to the battle against the Federation droid control ship and inadvertently causing its destruction from within, which deactivates the droid army. Meanwhile, Darth Maul infiltrates the Theed Palace and engages Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan in a lightsaber duel. Maul mortally wounds Qui-Gon before being bisected by Obi-Wan and falling down a shaft. Before Qui-Gon dies, he asks Obi-Wan to train Anakin. Gunray is arrested by the Republic and Palpatine is elected Chancellor. Grand Master Yoda promotes Obi-Wan to the rank of Jedi Knight and reluctantly accepts Anakin as Obi-Wan's apprentice. Cast Additionally, Brian Blessed voiced Boss Nass, the leader of the Gungan tribe who allies with the Naboo surface dwellers; Andy Secombe voiced Watto, a junk dealer on Tatooine who owns Anakin and his mother as slaves; and Lewis MacLeod voiced Sebulba, an aggressive, scheming podracer who is Anakin's main rival at the Boonta Eve podrace. Greg Proops and Scott Capurro voiced Fode and Beed, respectively, the two-headed announcer of the Boonta Eve Race. Alan Ruscoe appears as Jedi Master Plo Koon and Neimoidian Daultay Dofine, commander of the Trade Federation's droid control ships. Ralph Brown plays Ric Olie, commander of the Naboo Royal Space Fighter Corps and chief pilot aboard Queen Amidala's starship, while Matthew Wood appears as the Twi'lek Bib Fortuna alongside a CGI Jabba the Hutt, who is voiced by Scott Schumann. Dominic West plays the role of an unnamed Naboo guard, and Sofia Coppola appears as Saché, one of Amidala's handmaidens. Christian Simpson appears as Lieutenant Gavyn Sykes. Lindsay Duncan voices TC-14, a protocol droid on the Federation ship. Sally Hawkins made her screen debut as an uncredited villager.

Star Wars Forces of Destiny Star Wars Forces of Destiny is a 2D animated web series by Lucasfilm Animation released through Lucasfilm's YouTube channel. Set across multiple eras of the Star Wars franchise, it is a collection of two- to three-minute shorts centering on female characters featured in previous Star Wars installments. The series premiered on July 3, 2017, beginning the daily release of a set of eight episodes; these episodes subsequently began broadcasting on Disney Channel on July 9. An additional eight episodes were released in late 2017, and the second season of eight episodes was released in 2018. First announced and presented in April 2017 during Star Wars Celebration Orlando, Forces of Destiny is part of a franchise expansion initiative by Disney Consumer Products and Interactive Media and includes a companion toy line by Hasbro and a series of youth-aimed books. The series is the first 2D animated series produced by Lucasfilm since the 2003 Star Wars: Clone Wars series and the first 2D project by Lucasfilm Animation. "Sands of Jakku" On Jakku, Rey takes BB-8 home, where BB-8 can stay until someone comes for the droid. A hungry nightwatcher worm swallows BB-8 and disappears into the sand. Rey saves BB-8 by hitting the hidden worm with a lucky throw of her quarterstaff. She feeds the worm junk, appeasing its appetite. "BB-8 Bandits" On Jakku, Rey and BB-8 head to Niima Outpost, hoping someone is looking for BB-8 there. Teedo and two bandits, who want BB-8, attack them. In the ensuing speeder chase, Rey causes the bandits to crash. She lures Teedo to the nightwatcher worm, which eats Teedo's speeder. She and BB-8 escape. "Ewok Escape" Princess Leia is led through the forests of Endor by an Ewok, Wicket. They find two other Ewoks cornered by stormtroopers. Wicket traps the stormtroopers, but his plan soon goes awry. Leia rescues him. The Ewoks take Leia to their village, and they give her a dress and spear. "The Padawan Path" Ahsoka Tano is late for a ceremony at the Jedi Temple on Coruscant. She hears screaming and detours to rescue civilians from a malfunctioning droid. She arrives at the temple, and Yoda praises her growth as a Padawan and gives her a bead for her Padawan braid. Her master Anakin Skywalker expresses pride in her. "Beasts of Echo Base" Set prior to The Empire Strikes Back, Leia and R2-D2 search for Chewbacca, who disappeared while digging corridors for the base on Hoth. They find he has been captured by a Wampa. Leia distracts the Wampa while Chewbacca and R2-D2 fix the door, and the three of them seal the Wampa out of the base. Guest star: Anthony Daniels as the voice of C-3PO. "The Imposter Inside" On Coruscant, Ahsoka and Senator Padmé Amidala prepare for controversial diplomatic negotiations held over dinner. They notice that the table is set incorrectly, forcing a disguised Clawdite assassin to reveal herself. They subdue the assassin. However, the room is destroyed, and the negotiations must be postponed. "The Stranger" Stormtroopers on Lothal attempt to confiscate a girl's pet cat, but Jyn Erso intervenes. The cat escapes, and Jyn and the stormtroopers give chase. She subdues the stormtroopers and reunites the girl with her pet. "Bounty of Trouble" Stormtroopers escort Leia on Lothal. Sabine Wren stages Leia's kidnapping so that Leia, secretly working for the Rebel Alliance, can give Sabine a data tape of Imperial base locations. However, bounty hunter droid IG-88 attacks them for the tape. They set the stormtroopers against IG-88. Leia successfully passes Sabine the tape and returns to her escort. "Newest Recruit" Ketsu helps Sabine steal food from the Empire on Lothal, but Ketsu is unsure she will join the Rebellion. The mission turns into a shootout with Stormtroopers, and a child is caught in the crossfire. Ketsu rescues the child, and Sabine calls Hera to airlift the three of them to safety in the Ghost. Aboard the Ghost, Ketsu makes up her mind and joins the Rebellion. "Tracker Trouble" Rey, Han Solo, BB-8, Chewbacca, and Finn are travelling to Maz's castle when the Millennium Falcon is pulled out of hyperspace. Rey, Finn, and Chewbacca search for a tracker, but they find a bomb instead. Rey and Chewbacca throw the bomb into space while Finn instructs Han to make the jump back to hyperspace. Guest star: John Boyega as the voice of Finn. "Teach You, I Will" At the Jedi Temple, Anakin wants to teach a frustrated Ahsoka how to use two lightsabers at once. Yoda mediates and teaches her a valuable lesson on the importance of individuality. "The Starfighter Stunt" While Ahsoka teaches Padmé how to pilot a jet fighter, a Droid Starfighter attacks them. Padmé must use her newly learned skills in piloting to help them escape. "Accidental Allies" Sabine helps Jyn escape a stormtrooper pursuit and Jyn helps Sabine. Note: Last episode with Felicity Jones as the voice of Jyn Erso. "An Imperial Feast" Leia orders Han to bargain with fellow pilot Hera Syndulla for rations that hungry Ewoks might enjoy. "The Happabore Hazard" Rey discovers a stubborn, unmoving Happabore sitting on the ship she's meant to tow back for Unkar Plut. "Crash Course" Sabine reluctantly lets Ketsu borrow her favorite speeder for a covert mission. "Hasty Departure" Hera and Sabine liberate an Imperial shuttle, but because Sabine was rushing, they board the wrong ship and it's full of troopers! Chopper flies the correct shuttle and rescues his friends mid-air. "Unexpected Company" Ahsoka joins Anakin on a mission planned for just he and Padme. Anakin, upset at the intrusion, sets a quicker flight path that puts them in the path of a Separatist blockade. The three must put differences aside to get past the blockade. "Shuttle Shock" On their approach to Canto Bight, Finn and Rose encounter a pod of creatures in the atmosphere. When a tentacle hits the shuttle and shorts out BB-8, Finn and Rose must work together to fix BB-8 and land the shuttle safely. Guest star: John Boyega as the voice of Finn. "Jyn's Trade" A Chadra-Fan child snatches Jyn's kyber crystal necklace away and Jyn gives chase. When she finally catches the kid and retrieves her necklace, she realizes the child is just hungry and gives him her piece of fruit. Note: Only episode with Helen Sadler as the voice of Jyn Erso. "Run Rey Run" While scavenging inside a Star Destroyer, Rey is cornered by Teedo who is on the hunt for a valuable part. Rey tries to warn Teedo the removal of the part will trigger the vessel's collapse, but he does it anyway and she must help them both escape after Teedo is knocked out by falling debris. "Bounty Hunted" Seeking help to free Han from Jabba, Leia, Chewbacca, and R2-D2 travel to Ord Mantell to meet with Han's old friend Maz Kanata. Maz lures bounty hunter Boushh into a firefight so Leia can obtain his helmet and armor for a perfect disguise. "The Path Ahead" Struggling with his Jedi training, Luke is grateful for master Yoda's offer to join him on a sojourn through the trees and swamps of Dagobah, until he learns that Yoda will be riding in his backpack! Minding Yoda, Luke learns to trust what he feels instead of what he thinks he sees. First of two episodes not to feature any female characters. "Porg Problems" As Rey struggles to force lift stones, a curious porg snatches her lightsaber! Rey gives chase and force lifts the porg before it can dive into the water with her saber. Rey thanks the porg for the unexpected help in her training. "Chopper and Friends" Hera is surprised to discover that Chopper has crewed the Ghost with two Ewoks who prove their mettle and help take down some stray TIEs over Endor. "Monster Misunderstanding" Queen Amidala helps solve the mystery of why a Sando Aqua monster is attacking the docks of Naboo when she interrupts poachers attempting to steal the creature's baby. "Art History" Sabine and Tristan are on a covert mission to free Mandalore, but they risk everything to destroy an Imperial outpost that has defaced a symbolic statue of Tarre Vizsla. "Porgs!" Chewie is exasperated when a pair of porgs tears blue wiring out of the Falcon. Further investigation with help from R2-D2 reveals that the porgs are looking for hard-to-find blue moss for their nest—if only Chewie can get it for them. Second of two episodes not to feature any female characters. "Perilous Pursuit" In a dangerous snowspeeder chase across Starkiller Base, Rey and Finn work together to escape pursuing snowtroopers. Guest star: John Boyega as the voice of Finn. "Traps and Tribulations" Luke and Leia (with the aid of a lightsaber) help Kneesaa and Wicket stop a rampaging Gorax by resetting the Ewoks' traps. "A Disarming Lesson" Ahsoka gives Ezra a lesson in finding his inner strength and trusting in the Force when she disarms him and pressures him to adapt to her attacks on the fly. "Triplecross" Hondo teams up with bounty hunter droid IG-88 to capture Qi’ra, but she outsmarts both her pursuers by pitting them against each other so that she can collect the bounty on them.

Star Wars Rebels Star Wars Rebels is an American 3D animated science fiction television series produced by Lucasfilm Animation and set in the Star Wars universe. It takes place 14 years after Star Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith (2005) and progresses toward the events of the original Star Wars film (1977). It depicts the Galactic Empire hunting down the last of the Jedi while a fledgling rebellion against the Empire emerges. The visual style of the series is inspired by the original Star Wars trilogy concept art by Ralph McQuarrie. The series features new characters, along with some from the original trilogy and from the previous animated series, Star Wars: The Clone Wars (2008–2020). The series comprises four seasons. The series premiered as a one-hour television film, Spark of Rebellion, on October 3, 2014, on Disney Channel prior to the premiere of the series on October 13 on Disney XD. The second season premiered on June 20, 2015, with a one-hour television film, The Siege of Lothal. The third season premiered on September 24, 2016, with the television film, Steps Into Shadow. The fourth and final season premiered on October 16, 2017, with another one-hour television film, Heroes of Mandalore. Its final episode aired on March 5, 2018. Dave Filoni, Simon Kinberg, and Greg Weisman served as executive producers of the first season. Weisman left the show after the first season. Filoni was also the supervising director for the first two seasons, a role he relinquished after accepting a promotion that expanded his creative role into overseeing all Lucasfilm Animation projects; he chose Justin Ridge to succeed him for the third season. Filoni re-assumed the role for the fourth season. Rebels has been generally well-received with several award wins and nominations. The show was nominated for the Critics' Choice Television Award for Best Animated Series and the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Children's Program. Rebels became the first recipient of the Saturn Award for Best Animated Series on Television, winning for its final two seasons. A number of tie-in media have been released to expand upon the series' lore such as the comic book series Kanan, the novel A New Dawn, and the novel series Thrawn. Characters, storylines, and elements introduced in the series would also appear in subsequent Star Wars media. The series' storyline continues in the Disney+ live-action series Ahsoka.

Star Wars Resistance Star Wars Resistance is an American 3D animated comic science fiction television series produced by Lucasfilm Animation. It follows Kazuda Xiono, a New Republic pilot who is recruited by the Resistance to spy on the growing threat of the First Order shortly before and during the events of the sequel trilogy. The series premiered on Disney Channel on October 7, 2018, and the next day it debuted on Disney XD in the United States and worldwide. Twelve shorts debuted on the Disney Channel YouTube channel in December 2018. The second and final season premiered on October 6, 2019 on Disney Channel, Disney XD and DisneyNow. The series ended on January 26, 2020 after forty episodes. Resistance received generally positive reviews from critics. The series was nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Children's Program for both of its seasons. It won the Saturn Award for Best Animated Series on Television in 2019 for its debut season. "The Recruit" Young New Republic pilot Kazuda Xiono is recruited into the Resistance by Commander Poe Dameron, who brings Kaz to the Colossus, an aircraft refueling station on the ocean planet Castilon. Kaz's mission is to get to know everyone at this haven for the galaxy's best pilots, and learn who is working with the First Order. After a misunderstanding paints Kaz as the self-declared "best pilot in the known galaxy", he must compete in a dangerous race to prove himself. Poe's associate Jarek Yaeger lends Kaz a ship in need of repairs, The Fireball, which irks mechanic Tam Ryvora. Kaz chooses young pilot Torra Doza as his opponent, soon learning that she is undefeated. Kaz runs a good race, but crashes when he pushes The Fireball too hard. "The Triple Dark" While Kaz struggles to maintain his cover as a mechanic on the Colossus, Yeager's shop receives a new customer in the form of the Neimoidian Hallion Nark, who wants the repairs to his ship to be completed before the next "triple dark", a storm that causes low visibility on Castilon. Besides juggling his work as a mechanic and spy, Kaz also has to contend with the Aleena Grevel over debts accumulated during a game of holodarts. The Quarren pirate Kragan Gorr and his gang attack the Colossus during a "triple dark" storm. Kaz manages to drive away the pirates by using a comlink to beam a jammer into their communications systems. At the exposition, it is revealed that Kragan and his pirates are proxies serving the First Order, which hope to use the chaos to establish a foothold at Colossus. "Fuel for the Fire" Still struggling to fit in as a mechanic at Yeager's repair shop, Kaz is befriended by the young racer Jace Rucklin and his associates. Having gained Kaz's trust after staging a rescue during a swoop bike ocean race, Rucklin convinces Kaz to let him visit Yeager's trophy room under the pretext of seeing Yeager's racer. Rucklin steals a bottle of Corellian hyperfuel for his racer. Upon learning of the theft and the volatile nature of hyperfuel, Kaz saves Rucklin's life but earns the enmity of the young racer and his friends, who swear revenge. Despite his unsatisfactory performance, Yeager gives Kaz a second chance because he views him as a good person who saved Rucklin from himself. "The High Tower" Captain Doza's fuel rationing forces Kaz and the rest of Yeager's team down to Aunt Z's cafe, where Kaz meets Hype Fazon. Hype reveals that the First Order is bringing fuel to Colossus, and Kaz runs outside to watch the First Order's ship as it comes in. Hype then invites Tam, Kaz and BB-8 to visit the High Tower, and Kaz excitedly agrees, hoping to find out what the First Order is doing on the platform. Using a comm link, he is able to listen in to Major Vonreg's meeting with Doza and discovers the First Order is offering protection from the pirates in exchange for control of the station, however as he leaves Vonreg discovers Kaz's actions. After a daring chase—and an encounter with Doza's daughter—Torra, Kaz eventually ends up back at Yeager's shop, but not before Doza begins to suspect him as the spy. "The Children from Tehar" Kaz damages Tam's acceleration compensator, and promises to replace it although he is short on credits. At Aunt Z's, Kaz hears about a 20,000 credit bounty on two runaway children, which could solve his money issues. Kaz runs into the children, Kel and Eila, at the market, but they escape. Neeku introduces Kaz to the platform's engineers, the "shellfolk" Chelidae, who promise to look out for Kel and Eila. Kaz is summoned by Doza, who questions him about the children. Once Kaz leaves, Doza contacts Captain Phasma of the First Order, who sends troops to retrieve the fugitives. Out of sight of the troops, two Chelidae take the children's place and jump into the water. By slowing their life signs, the two Chelidae fake the troopers into believing that the children have drowned. Kaz passes on intelligence to the Resistance about Kylo Ren and the First Order wiping out Kel and Eila's village on Tehar in the Unknown Regions. "Signal from Sector Six" With the approval of Yeager, Kaz takes leave on a starfighter training exercise with Poe. During the training exercise, the two receive a distress signal from a damaged ship, which had been attacked by pirates. While searching the ship for survivors, Kaz and Poe along with their droids BB-8 and CB-23 are attacked by several Kowakian monkey-lizards and a large Kowakian ape-lizard, the cousin of the smaller creatures. The two Resistance pilots also rescue a Mirialan crew member named Synara San, whom they bring back to the Colossus with the reluctant permission of Yeager. Unknown to the others, Synara is part of Kragan Gorr's pirate gang and becomes their undercover operative on the Colossus. "Synara's Score" Captain Doza hires Yeager's Team Fireball to repair the turbolaser system's tracking computer. The repairs are complicated by a rare missing military grade computer chip. With the help of Synara who has found work as a scavenger, Kaz and Tam managed to obtain the computer chip from a sunken starship. As a result, the two come to trust Synara. In secret, Synara informs Kragan Gorr that Ace Squadron is away and the Colossus' turbolaser defense systems are down. During the pirate attack, Kaz and Yeager fight with pirates while reinstalling the tracking computer. Meanwhile, Tam and BB-8 rush into the loading docks to rescue Synara. Team Fireball managed to drive the pirates away but the second raid leads Captain Doza to seek protection from the First Order. "The Platform Classic" In an attempt to boost the Colossus' economy, Captain Doza invites Yeager's estranged younger brother and renowned racer Marcus Speedstar to the Platform Classic. Still bitter at Speedstar for causing the deaths of his wife and daughter during a racing accident ten years ago, Yeager refuses to speak with Speedstar. Despite the high life, Speedstar struggles with paying his debts to the Guavian Death Gang, who kidnap his mechanic Oplock. Yeager's attempt to force Speedstar to pull out of the race backfires and Yeager is compelled to participate in the Platform Classic. At the urging of both Speedstar and Kaz, Yeager decides to forgive his younger brother and allows Speedstar to win the race. After paying Speedstar's debts to the Guavians and freeing Oplock, the two brothers reconcile before parting ways. "Secrets and Holograms" Tired of being cooped up inside the luxurious Doza Tower, Captain Doza's daughter Torra Doza sneaks out of the tower. She encounters Kaz and BB-8, who are seeking information on Captain Doza's connections with the First Order. In the marketplace, Torra encounters growing public dissatisfaction with her father's leadership of the Colossus. While the First Order's emissary Commander Pyre negotiates an agreement with Captain Doza, Kaz befriends Torra Doza over a flight simulator game. Kaz manages to download a copy of Captain Doza's agreement but is spotted by Rucklin, who still bears a grudge against him for the loss of his racer. Kaz manages to hide from Captain Doza and Rucklin inside a closet (although Rucklin almost finds Kaz before he is stopped by Doza), but discovers Doza's Imperial uniform, confirming that he once served the Galactic Empire. Torra helps Kaz to escape but the two narrowly avoid being incinerated in a trash incinerator. Following the misadventure, Torra grows curious about Kaz's true identity. "Station Theta Black" Kaz borrows the Fireball in order to rendezvous with Poe and the Resistance. However, Tam had not finished installing the stabilizer and Kaz loses control of the ship. He is rescued by a Resistance CR90 corvette. General Organa assigns Poe and Kaz to scout a possible First Order flight path. Traveling to the coordinates, they discover Station Theta Black, a First Order asteroid mining facility. Their presence attracts the attention of Captain Phasma and Major Vonreg, who lead a contingent to destroy the station, wiping out evidence of is existence. Following a pursuit, Kaz and Poe managed to escape the doomed station. Back at base, Kaz, Poe and Leia agree that a war is looming. "Bibo" While visiting the Colossus loading docks, Neeku befriends and adopts a slimy sea creature called Bibo. Neeku's new pet causes tension with the rest of Team Fireball including his employer Yeager. Bibo runs away and Neeku enlists Tam's help in finding his pet. They find Bibo in the safe hands of Kel and Eila but Eila warns that "something" is coming for Bibo. Meanwhile, Synara takes Kaz on a salvaging expedition in an attempt to probe into his past. However, a large sea monster besieges the platform. Synara and Kaz lock down the platform while Doza deploys the Ace Squadron to fight off the sea monster. At Tam's urging, Neeku surrenders Bibo to the creature, which turns out to be Bibo's mother. "Dangerous Business" As Kaz's mechanical skills improve, he secures a part-time job manning Orka and Flix's Acquisitions shop while they are away visiting family. Kaz also has to babysit the duo's pet Gorg Bitey, who has a propensity for biting. An alien customer named Teroj Kee visits the Acquisitions shop, seeking a phase connector. Teroj lures Kaz into a trap inside a cargo container and attempts to throw into the sea. After stealing the phase connector, Teroj departs aboard a freighter with First Order stormtroopers. Kaz escapes the container and sabotages the freighter by getting Bitey to damage a power box, causing it to crash into the ocean and denying Teroj and his First Order handlers access to the phase connector. Kaz, Teroj and the stormtroopers escape the freighter using escape pods. "The Doza Dilemma" Under orders from Commander Pyre, Kragan and his pirate gang Warbirds embark on a plot to kidnap Captain Doza's daughter Torra in order to force Captain Doza to accept First Order protection over the Colossus. Kragan's spy Synara is tasked with helping the pirate infiltrators Drell and Valik infiltrate Doza Tower. Having grown attached to Kaz and his friends, Synara becomes disillusioned with being a pirate. Drell and Valik managed to kidnap Torra and deliver her to Kragan's barge. First Order forces led by Major Vonreg rescue Torra (betraying the pirates in the process) and return her to Captain Doza, who is under more pressure to accept First Order protection. Meanwhile, Kaz becomes suspicious of Synara while Kragan's Warbirds sever ties with the First Order. "The First Order Occupation" Following the kidnapping attempt against Torra, her father Captain Doza allows First Order stormtroopers to patrol the Colossus. Yeager advises Kaz to keep a low profile. After stormtroopers visit Yeager's repairs to question Kaz about Synara, Kaz decides to help her escape the Colossus despite knowing her true identity as a pirate. Despite being pursued by stormtroopers, Kaz manages to help Synara escape in an underwater escape pod. Synara reunites with Kragan's pirate gang, but her friendship with Kaz and Tam leads her to question her loyalty to Kragan. "The New Trooper" Kel and Elia seek out Kaz's aid involving a stormtrooper they knocked out. To avoid the stormtrooper being missed, Kaz takes his armor and infiltrates the First Order, learning that First Order is plotting a full-scale takeover of the Colossus. He manages to escape with a data rod from Commander Pyre's shuttle and return his armor to its owner before the stormtroopers can catch him. Upon returning to Yeager, they discover that the First Order is amassing a large fleet and intend to use the Colossus as a resupply station. "The Core Problem" Kaz accompanies Poe on a mission to investigate First Order activity in the Dassal system within the Unknown Regions. Traveling there, they discover that the system's sun has vanished, several wrecked planetoids, and that the planet Najra-Va has been drilled through. Kaz and Poe encounter a First Order probe droid on an abandoned moon, whose population has been wiped out by the First Order. After escaping First Order TIE fighters, Kaz and Poe part company with BB-8 accompanying Poe on a mission to Jakku. Returning with the astromech droid CB-23, Kaz's frequent trips offworld start to draw Tam's suspicion. "The Disappeared" As the First Order tightens its grip on the Colossus, racing is banned. Several outspoken Colossus residents including Ace Squadron leader Hype Fazon (who dislikes the fact that racing is no longer allowed) and Aunt Z mysteriously disappear. Kaz helps his friend Torra to investigate Hype's disappearance. Meanwhile, Yeager and Captain Doza join forces to send a message to Resistance. Kaz and Torra discover that Hype, Aunt Z and two other alien residents are being imprisoned in the West's docks. They free the prisoners and help them escape offworld to find help. Returning to Yeager's shop, Kaz and Team Fireball are arrested by Commander Pyre. "Descent" With the help of the Chelidae, Kaz and his friends managed to escape Commander Pyre and flee into the Colossus' underlevels. Believing the situation to be a misunderstanding, Tam surrenders herself to the First Order. First Order Security Bureau Agent Tierny gains her trust by revealing Kaz's true identity as a Resistance spy, while deceiving her by saying that the First Order are peacekeepers. Kaz and the others reunite with Kel, Eila and the Chelidae in the engineering deck. Kaz comes up with a plan to take out the First Order's communications jammer by sinking the station. With Captain Doza's help, Kaz's plan works, but Tierny becomes suspicious upon noticing that only Doza Tower is still above water. Kaz, Yeager and CB-23 swim up to Doza Tower and disable the jammer long enough for Kaz to send a message to the Resistance. Yeager allows himself to be captured so Kaz can escape. Returning to the engineering deck, Kaz and the others receive General Organa's apologies that the Resistance is unable to aid them. Kragan and the pirates intercept Kaz's message, drawing Synara's attention. "No Escape: Part 1" When Captain Doza protests Yeager's imprisonment, Pyre decides he had exhausted his usefulness and has him and the Aces arrested. 4D, Doza's droid helper, tries to help Doza but is destroyed by Pyre. Meanwhile, Kaz, Neeku, Kel and Elia capture the platform control center so Kaz and CB-23 can infiltrate the detention cells. They soon discover a hyperdrive above their heads and realize the Colossus is a starship and start preparing for liftoff. At the same time, Agent Tierny manipulates Tam's resentment towards Kaz to motivate her into joining the First Order and reveals that Yeager knew who Kaz really is all this time. This is further supported when Tam lashes out at a captured Yeager for hiding Kaz's true identity this entire time. Kaz runs into Torra, who agrees to lead him to the cells. At one point, they are caught by a First Order astromech droid, who almost gives away their location before it is stopped by CB-23. They soon eavesdrop on a group of stormtroopers viewing a transmission from General Hux, proclaiming the end of the New Republic. Kaz can only watch in horror as Starkiller Base destroys his home of Hosnian Prime and his parents along with it. "No Escape: Part 2" While Kaz and Torra rescue Yeager and Doza, the First Order decides to leave the planet immediately. Neeku flushes the stormtroopers out through the submerged portions of the Colossus. Yeager and Kaz cut off Tierny, Pyre and Tam at the First Order shuttle, but are cornered by the remaining stormtroopers. They attempt to reason with Tam, but she chooses to side with the First Order, as she is upset with them for lying to her. As Neeku gets the Colossus airborne, Doza frees the Aces and send them out to defend the ship from the First Order's TIE fighters. Aunt Z and Hype Fazon return to help, along with the pirates, and they take out the TIE fighters. Yeager is nearly shot down by Major Vonreg, but Kaz shoots Vonreg down first—as a Star Destroyer shows up. Everyone retreats to the hangar, and the Colossus jumps into hyperspace to meet the Resistance on D'Qar. Neeku reveals that he failed to enter the coordinates to D'Qar before jumping, so the crew has no way of knowing where they will end up. "Into the Unknown" The Colossus comes out of hyperspace in an unknown region. In the lower decks of the Colossus, Kazuda and his friends work to restore the station's artificial gravity, and have to stop the stowed-away First Order astromech droid from sending a beacon to its comrades in the Castilon system. Aboard a Star Destroyer, Tam pledges her loyalty to the First Order in the wake of Kazuda's apparent betrayal—even if it means revealing the location of the Colossus. Kazuda sends her a message, hoping to apologize, but Tam cuts the transmission short and dons her TIE pilot helmet. "A Quick Salvage Run" Tam listens to Kazuda's transmission, and is overheard by Rucklin, now also a First Order cadet pilot. He forces Tam to share the communication with Agent Tierny. The Colossus arrives at D'Qar to find that the Resistance base has been destroyed, but their supply of coaxium has been depleted—making it impossible to make another jump to hyperspace. Kaz suggests salvaging some from the remains of a First Order Dreadnought, which he does with the help of the pirates. The First Order arrives and the Aces defend the away team as Neeku transfers the unstable coaxium to the Colossus, with its shields failing just before they are able to make the jump to hyperspace. "Live Fire" Yeager trains the Aces, enlisting Kazuda to help based on his experience flying for the Resistance. Hype is reluctant to help Kaz or the Resistance, but Torra convinces him to help in order to defend the station. As they train over the planet's surface below, they are attacked by a manta ray-like monster which looms over Hype. The flyers cooperate to thwart the beast, and back on the Colossus, Hype warmly welcomes Kaz into the Aces. Meanwhile, Tam trains as a TIE fighter pilot and saves Rucklin after accidentally disabling his controls during an exercise; however, her actions do not please the First Order. "Hunt on Celsor 3" The crew of the Colossus is running low on supplies, prompting the pirates to hunt the manta ray-like jakoosk on the planet, Celsor 3. Kaz and Torra independently join the hunt, but the beast is immune to their fire. Two of the pirates are knocked to the surface, forcing Kragan and Synara to retreat in their sail barge. Later, Kaz and Torra return to the cold planet and land in an attempt to fire on the jakoosk from below. Their plans are complicated by Torra's unruly pet Buggles joining them and the marooned pirates stealing their fighters to escape. However, Kaz is successful in taking down the jakoosk, and the Colossus retrieves them and celebrates with a feast. "The Engineer" Kaz and Synara rescue a Nikto engineer named Nena, who helps repair the Colossus while befriending Neeku and expressing her hatred towards the pirates. However, they later discover that Nena is an agent working for the First Order to sabotage the Colossus and reveal its location as Pyre's Star Destroyer attacks. As Nena flees into hyperspace, Kaz and Neeku (who is upset after learning the truth about Nena) manage to undo her sabotage, allowing the Colossus to escape. Disappointed with Nena's failure, Agent Tierny orders Pyre to execute Nena should they ever meet her again. "From Beneath" Short on fuel, Kaz, Torra Doza, CB-23, Flix and Orka travel to Flix's homeworld of Drahgor III, a stormy world with deep mines containing fuel. Flix receives an icy reception from his estranged cousins, particularly Flanx. In returning for helping to repair a broken drill, Flanx agrees to supply the offworlders with fuel. Their mission goes awry when the lift malfunctions. While Torra and Orka climb back to the surface, the others are attacked by a large Karnex dragon, which captures Flanx. They rescue Flanx, but are attacked by more dragons. With the help of Torra and Orka, they manage to drive the dragons away and seal the entrance to their caves. Flix reconciles with Flanx, who gives the offworlders fuel. Realizing that they were encroaching on the dragons' habitat, Flanx ends deep-core drilling. "The Relic Raiders" Kaz, Torra, Freya, CB-23, Kel and Eila travel to a trading outpost on the forested planet of Ashas Ree to gather supplies. However, they find that the settlement has been abandoned due to the excavation of an ancient Sith temple. While exploring the Sith temple, Kaz is trapped in a chamber with an archaeologist named Mika Grey, who wants to prevent the First Order from getting hold of a Sith relic. Working with Kel, Eila and CB-23, they manage to escape a giant grinding machine. After Mika obtains the relic, the group discover that First Order raiders led by Raith have captured Torra and Freya. Though the First Order captures Kaz, Kel, Eila and CB-23, Mika throws the Sith relic, unleashing a powerful wave of energy that vaporizes the First Order raiders, destroying the relic but denying it to the First Order. Mika agrees to accompany Kaz and his party back to the Colossus, striking a friendship with the Force-sensitive Eila. "Rendezvous Point" Captain Doza uses a signal beacon to contact his wife Resistance pilot Venise Doza for their annual reunion. However, this draws the attention of the First Order. Following a dogfight, the Colossus is forced to retreat into hyperspace. Venise arrives and is captured by Agent Tierny. While in captivity, she meets Tam and tries to convince her to leave the First Order. While Tam is still unwilling to leave due to her still being oblivious of the First Order's true nature, she comes to respect her adversary and question her commitment to the First Order. Venise escapes her cell with the help of her astromech droid Torch and escapes the First Order Star Destroyer, but not before skirmishing with stormtroopers and destroying several TIEs to distract Tierny, with Tam willingly allowing her to escape. While Torra is upset at not being able to rendezvous with her mother, she decides not to risk drawing First Order attention. To cheer her up, Kaz and the Ace pilots make her a jelly cake. Torra and Captain Doza spend family time together and reflect on Venise's contribution to the Resistance cause. "The Voxx Vortex 5000" With the Colossus running low on money, Hype convinces Captain Doza to allow the Aces to race with his former employer Vranki, a Hutt who owns a hotel and casino in the Voxx Cluster, in order to win money from him. However, the unscrupulous Hutt cheats Hype in a rigged race with his racer droids, forcing Hype to work for him, and prevents the others from leaving unless they allow Hype to stay. Captain Doza is forced to send his Ace pilots to compete with Vranki's racer droids in the Voxx Vortex 5000 in an attempt to win Hype back. The Hutt uses a series of dirty tactics to beat the Ace competitors, leaving only Torra and Kaz. With the help of Neeku, who has figured out that Vranki is using algorithms, Kaz and Torra race against Vranki's racer droids. At the advice of Kaz, Doza convinces Vranki to wager 500,000 credits with the promise of getting the Colossus if he wins. But if they win, all the pilots are to be freed and they also get to keep the 500,000 credits. Though Torra loses, Kaz manages to beat Vranki's droids with Neeku's help despite being hindered by Vranki's goons. A humbled Vranki is forced to release the indentured Aces and give them the prize money, allowing them to leave. Hype refuses to work with his former employer again. "Kaz's Curse" While playing a betting game with the Warbird pirates, Kaz is cursed by the Nikto pirate Leoz, who is jealous of Kaz's success. A series of accidents aboard the Colossus afflict Kaz, leading Neeku to believe that he is cursed, which Kaz refuses to believe. Kaz's problems are complicated by the Colossus traveling through an asteroid field in Guavian Death Gang space. After failing to stop a Guavian ship from reporting their presence, Kaz visits the archaeologist and spiritualist Mika Grey, who gives him a good luck charm. A Guavian fleet attacks the Colossus and demands that they pay a 1 million credit toll fee or surrender the Colossus, with the intention of turning them all over to the First Order. Rejecting their demands, Captain Doza sends the Aces into action. Despite leaving his lucky charm behind, Kaz manages to shoot down several Guavian ships and convinces the other Aces to lead the Guavians through the asteroid field. After escaping, Kaz realizes that he wasn't cursed and settles scores with the superstitious Leoz. "Station to Station" Due to their familiarity with the Colossus, First Order TIE cadets Tam and Rucklin are assigned on a supply mission to the Titan, a similar refueling platform controlled by the First Order. Their visit coincides with a mission by Kaz, Neeku and CB-23 to steal a replacement trans-binary deflector for the Colossus. General Hux also attends a meeting of senior First Order officers to discuss counterinsurgency operations against the Resistance. Kaz and Neeku manage to reach the hyperdrive chamber where the deflector is stored but are trapped by a vengeful Rucklin, who alerts the First Order while showing no regards for the duo. A reluctant Tam secretly helps Kaz's team escape the hyperdrive chamber. After a brief skirmish with First Order forces and astromech droids in the hangar, Kaz's team escape on a getaway shuttle. A furious Hux orders Pyre to destroy the Colossus. Following the heist, Commander Pyre and Agent Tierny plan to use Tam (having been aware of her actions) to locate and destroy the Colossus. While leaving the Titan, Rucklin expresses his enjoyment with working for the First Order to Tam, unaware of Kaz, Neeku and CB-23's escape. This is the last episode to air before the release of Rise of Skywalker "The Missing Agent" The Resistance operative Norath Kev is captured by the Iktotchi bounty hunter Ax Tagrin but not before sending a distress signal. Kaz, Yeager, CB-23 and Synara travel to the Varkana system to rescue him. They are betrayed by the collaborationist Gran vendor Lechee, who alerts Ax. After questioning Lechee, Kaz and his team learn that Ax is holding Norath in his starship. Kaz, Yeager and CB-23 find Norath only to be trapped aboard Ax's starship. Norath reveals that he has been monitoring First Order black market activities and has been compiling a list of local collaborators. Kaz and company manage to sabotage Ax's engines, causing the ship to crash. Yeager and Synara fight with Ax, allowing Kaz and Norath to escape. First Order forces under Commander Pyre enter the Varkana system, complicating the Colossus Resistance's predicament. "Breakout" Ax Tagrin delivers Yeager, Synara and CB-23 into the custody of Commander Pyre and Agent Tierny, who interrogate them about the location of the Colossus and the Resistance spies Kaz and Norath. Pyre refuses to pay Tagrin until he captures Kaz and Norath. Following a conflict with stormtroopers and a frightened but unfriendly Gabdorin merchant (who didn't want to get involved in the situation), Kaz comes up with an improvised plan to infiltrate the First Order camp by disguising himself and Norath as stormtroopers. Captain Doza is forced to take the Colossus into hiding after Tagrin and the First Order discover their location. Kaz and Norath manage to rescue Yeager and Synara with the help of CB-23, who has freed herself. After subduing Pyre, Tierny and Tagrin, they escape aboard their shuttle. Despite being pursued by TIEs, they are rescued by Ace Squadron, who rendezvous with the Colossus for a pick-up. Norath invites Kaz to join the Resistance, but he decides to remain with his Colossus friends. "The Mutiny" Seeking to take over the Colossus, Warbirds pirate gang’s leader Kragan Gorr buys several B2 super battle droids from Sidon Ithano, the “Crimson Corsair”. Unfortunately, the super battle droids are not in good condition to function. With tensions between Captain Doza and the pirates growing, Doza and Yeager task Neeku with spying on the Warbirds. Kragan convinces Neeku to help repair the super battle droids. Synara, who has befriended the locals, senses that Kragan is up to something and confides with Kaz. With the super battle droids ready, Kragan imprisons Neeku, Kaz and Synara and launches a mutiny against Captain Doza, overwhelming the defenders. However, Neeku has reprogrammed a B1 battle droid (who frees the trio) as a commander, who takes control of the super battle droids and disarms the pirates. The Warbirds are exiled from the Colossus (with Doza threatening to execute them should they ever return and try to take revenge), except Synara. "The New World" The Colossus travels to the uncharted ocean world of Aeos Prime, hoping to find a safe haven. Kaz goes on a scouting expedition with former Imperial pilot Griff Halloran and their droids CB-23 and R5-G9. Kaz discovers a ruined village, a First Order TIE fighter pilot's helmet, and an abandoned rebel base. He and the others are captured by the native Aeosians, blue-skinned humanoids who ride on winged beasts called Krakavora. Believing the newcomers to be hostile, the Queen orders her forces to attack the Colossus and to execute Kaz and his group. Aeosian warriors attack the Colossus, destroying B1 and several super battle droids. Kaz manages to convince the Queen of their peaceful intentions by healing a wounded Aeosian. The Queen calls for a halt to hostilities. After meeting with Captain Doza, she allows the Colossus to seek sanctuary on her homeworld. "No Place Safe" While the Colossus residents settle into their new home and mingle with the Aeosian natives, Kaz decides to return to the Resistance and makes arrangements with Norath to rendezvous near the planet Batuu, although Torra and Neeku aren't happy to learn that Kaz is leaving. Meanwhile, Commander Pyre dispatches several probe droids to search for the Colossus. Kaz encounters one of these probe droids while departing Aeos Prime aboard the Fireball. Kaz manages to destroy the probe droid, but the Fireball suffers extensive damage. CB-23 manages to repair the ship, allowing Kaz to return and warn the Colossus and Aeosians that the First Order is coming. Pyre's Star Destroyer arrives and dispatches several TIE fighters and bombers. During the ensuing dogfight, TIE cadets Tam and Rucklin see action against the Aces and their Aeosian allies, who manage to destroy several fighters and a bomber. Flying Yeager's racer, Kaz attempts to take out the Star Destroyer's bridge with a missile, but is thwarted by Tam. After reaching space, the Colossus manages to flee into hyperspace with the Aces. Yeager and a reluctant Kaz believe that Tam has chosen the First Order and is no longer their friend. Tam is promoted by Agent Tierny to Second Squadron Commander for her role in saving the Star Destroyer. "Rebuilding the Resistance" Resistance Commander Venisa Doza reunites with her family on the Colossus. With the approval of her husband Captain Doza, she recruits her daughter Torra, Kaz and Hype for a mission to evacuate several Resistance recruits on Dantooine. The Aces join Venisa's Jade Squadron, which includes Norath Kev and Kaz's New Republic comrade Hugh Sion. Jade Squadron and the Aces wipe out a TIE patrol, but draw the attention of Commander Pyre and Agent Tierny, who dispatch First Order forces, including a conflicted Tam and a bloodthirsty Rucklin to intercept the rendezvous. Jade Squadron manages to rendezvous with the shuttles, but are attacked by First Order TIE fighters. Despite shooting down many TIEs, including Lieutenant Galek's, Rucklin manages to shoot down one of the shuttles. Tam hesitantly tries to shoot Kaz's ship, but is thwarted by Sion, although she survives. Jade Squadron and the two remaining shuttles manage to escape to the Colossus. Kaz, Torra and Hype are distraught by the loss of the shuttle, but Venisa tells them not to give up on hope. Captain Doza allows the Resistance recruits to stay, committing the station to the Resistance. Tam is promoted to Squadron Leader by Tierny, but earns the enmity of a jealous Rucklin, who believes that position should belong to him. Tam, on the other hand, begins to have doubts over her decision of joining the First Order. "The Escape" After the First Order bomb a village on Aeos Prime as punishment for the residents aiding the Colossus, Tam decides to defect from the First Order and return to the Colossus. She arranges to meet with Kaz, Yeager and CB-23 on Castilon under the guise of a training flight. Tam is forced to knock out Rucklin and shoot down the other TIE fighters when they attack Kaz and Yeager's stolen First Order shuttle. After a brief reunion, Tam and her friends attempt to return to the Colossus, but are trapped in Commander Pyre's Star Destroyer's tractor beam. Tired of their continued failures, Supreme Leader Kylo Ren has ordered Pyre and Tierny to destroy the Colossus. Tam and Rucklin are captured while Kaz, Yeager and CB-23 manage to escape. In an attempt to save his own life and prove his loyalty, Rucklin reveals that the Colossus is in the Barabesh system but Pyre and Tierny are unmoved. Kaz and Yeager rescue Tam, who knocks out Rucklin. Working with CB-23, Kaz, Tam and Yeager send a transmission to the Colossus warning them to flee. The humans are subsequently captured, but CB manages to escape. The Colossus residents decide to help Kaz, Yeager and Tam and prepare to confront Pyre's Star Destroyer. During the ensuing battle, the Ace and Jade Squadrons attack the Star Destroyer's engines while CB-23 manages to disable the Star Destroyer's shield generator. Following a fight with Pyre, Kaz and his friends escape the stricken Star Destroyer. Tierny is Force-choked to her death by a displeased Ren as the Star Destroyer explodes, killing Pyre, Rucklin, presumably Lin Gaava, and everyone else on board. Tam is welcomed back by Yeager, Kaz, the Dozas, Aces and Jade Squadron at Aunt Z's Tavern.

Star Wars: Skeleton Crew Star Wars: Skeleton Crew is an upcoming American science fiction television series created by Jon Watts and Christopher Ford for the streaming service Disney+. It is part of the Star Wars franchise, taking place in the same time frame as the series The Mandalorian and its interconnected spin-offs after the events of the film Return of the Jedi (1983). Skeleton Crew tells a coming-of-age story about four children who make a discovery on their home planet, get lost in the galaxy, and go on an adventure to get back home. Jude Law stars in the series with Ryan Kiera Armstrong, Robert Timothy Smith, Ravi Cabot-Conyers, Kyriana Kratter, Tunde Adebimpe, Kerry Condon, and Jaleel White. Watts approached Lucasfilm about telling an Amblin Entertainment-style coming-of-age story set in the Star Wars universe, and he was developing the series with Ford by early 2022. It was officially announced that May at Star Wars Celebration, with Law revealed to be starring. Filming began by September 2022 in Los Angeles, and wrapped by late January 2023. The child actors in the series were revealed in April 2023. Kathleen Kennedy, Jon Favreau, and Dave Filoni returned from The Mandalorian as additional executive producers. Skeleton Crew is scheduled to be released on Disney+ in late 2024, and will consist of eight episodes.

Star Wars: Tales Star Wars: Tales is an American animated anthology television series created by Dave Filoni for the streaming service Disney+. Each installment consists of six shorts that explore different characters from the Star Wars franchise. The first, Tales of the Jedi, explores Jedi from the prequel trilogy era, while the second, Tales of the Empire, explores characters related to the Galactic Empire. The series is produced by Lucasfilm Animation, with Charles Murray as head writer and Filoni as supervising director. Filoni began writing Tales of the Jedi, also known as Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi, while working on the Star Wars series The Mandalorian. He revealed the first official details about the series in May 2022. It follows two "paths", one focused on the character Ahsoka Tano (voiced by Ashley Eckstein) and the other on the character Count Dooku (voiced by Corey Burton). Tales of the Jedi was released on Disney+ on October 26, 2022, and received critical acclaim, with praise towards its animation, writing, and musical score. A second installment was announced in April 2023, and was revealed a year later to be titled Tales of the Empire. Also known as Star Wars: Tales of the Empire, it is again split into two arcs: one follows Morgan Elsbeth (voiced by Diana Lee Inosanto) and the other follows former Jedi Barriss Offee (voiced by Meredith Salenger). Tales of the Empire was released on May 4, 2024. "Life and Death" A year after her birth, an infant Ahsoka Tano is taken on her first hunting trip by her mother, Pav-ti, as is customary for their people. While hunting, they are stalked by a large predatory animal which kidnaps Ahsoka. Pav-ti returns to the village for help, but is surprised to see Ahsoka arrive at the vilage soon after riding the animal, having subdued it in the forest. Gantika, a village elder, realizes that Ahsoka has a strong connection to the Force.Cast : Toks Olagundoye as Gantika, Sunil Malhotra as Nak-il, Janina Gavankar as Pav-ti, and Noshir Dalal as a villager "Justice" Jedi Master Dooku and his Padawan learner, Qui-Gon Jinn, find the kidnapped son of Senator Dagonet in a dilapidated village where the locals are struggling due to the senator's corruption. Dagonet arrives with troops and attacks the villagers. Dooku, angered by the corrupt senator, threatens to kill him with the Force. Qui-Gon and the senator's son convince Dooku to spare Dagonet, and the son promises to help the villagers.Cast : Corey Burton as Dooku and an armed villager, Micheál Richardson as Qui-Gon Jinn, Mark Rolston as Senator Dagonet, Josh Keaton as Senator Dagonet's son, and Vanessa Marshall as a village elder "Choices" Dooku and Jedi Master Mace Windu recover the body of Jedi Council member Katri from Raxus Secundus. Dooku insists on investigating Katri's death, against orders, and they discover that Katri was killed by guards who wanted to stop corrupt Senator Larik from draining Raxus's resources. At Katri's funeral, Windu reveals that he has been given the vacant Jedi Council spot instead of Dooku and attributes this to Dooku's rule-breaking.Cast : Corey Burton as Dooku, Andrew Kishino as Hanel and a guard, Brian George as Ki-Adi-Mundi, TC Carson as Mace Windu, Terrell Tilford as Semage, and Theo Rossi as Senator Larik "The Sith Lord" Following the secret plan of the Sith lord Darth Sidious, Dooku poses as Jedi Master Sifo-Dyas and deletes all records of the planet Kamino from the Jedi Archives. When Qui-Gon is killed by Darth Maul, Dooku confronts Sidious about Qui-Gon's death. He is followed by Jedi Master Yaddle, who tries to reason with Dooku, but Dooku kills Yaddle on Sidious's orders. This solidifies his fall to the dark side of the Force.Cast : Ian McDiarmid as Darth Sidious, Corey Burton as Dooku, Meg Marchand as the Jedi Temple Archive voice, Flo Di Re as Jocasta Nu, Liam Neeson as Qui-Gon Jinn, and Bryce Dallas Howard as Yaddle "Practice Makes Perfect" Disappointed with the simple battle simulations that his Padawan, Ahsoka, has to train with, Anakin Skywalker instead has her face a large group of clone troopers armed with stun guns. He repeats this training with her over the course of the Clone Wars. At the end of the war, the clones turn on the Jedi with the enactment of Order 66. Ahsoka uses the skills she gained during these drills to survive the attacking clones.Cast : Ashley Eckstein as Ahsoka Tano, Matt Lanter as Anakin Skywalker, Dee Bradley Baker as Captain Rex and Jesse, and James Arnold Taylor as Obi-Wan Kenobi "Resolve" During the funeral of Padmé Amidala, Senator Bail Organa tells Ahsoka to contact him if she needs help. Some time later, while in hiding, Ahsoka is seen using the Force to help someone who is in danger. She is reported to the Galactic Empire, and an Inquisitor is sent to capture her. Ahsoka kills the Inquisitor and contacts Organa, who comes to collect her the next day. She tells him that she is ready to fight against the Empire.Cast : Ashley Eckstein as Ahsoka Tano, Phil LaMarr as Bail Organa, Clancy Brown as an Inquisitor, David Shaughnessy as an old man, Dee Bradley Baker as security clone troopers, Bryton James as the village brother, and Dana Davis as the village sister "The Path of Fear" During the Clone Wars, General Grievous and the Separatist droid army massacre the Nightsisters of Dathomir, except for Morgan Elsbeth who is saved by the nearby Mountain Clan. Against the wishes of the clan's leader, the Matron, Morgan and three young clan members attempt to recover Nightsister weapons. They are attacked by droids and the Matron's daughter is killed. The Matron saves the others, but abandons Morgan.Cast : Matthew Wood as General Grievous, Lydia Look as the Matron, Cathy Ang as Morgan Elsbeth, Daisy Lightfoot as Nali, Diana Lee Inosanto as Selena, Suzie McGrath as witch #1, Meg Marchand as witch #2, and Gina Hermosillo as witch #3 "The Path of Anger" During the reign of the Empire, Morgan becomes magistrate of the resource-rich planet Corvus and promises to bring jobs and prosperity for the local population. She designs a new TIE Defender fighter but her proposal to make it for the Empire is rejected by Moff Isdain. Admiral Thrawn takes an interest in the proposal and sends his assassin, Rukh, to attack Morgan. After she holds her own, Thrawn accepts her project and offers his assistance.Cast : Lars Mikkelsen as Admiral Thrawn, Xander Berkeley as Gilad Pellaeon, Tom Konkle as Moff Isdain and villager #1, Diana Lee Inosanto as Morgan Elsbeth, Warwick Davis as Rukh, Meg Marchand as villager #2, Shelby Young as villager #3, and Wing T. Chao as Wing "The Path of Hate" After the fall of the Empire, former Corvus citizen Nadura returns as an ambassador of the New Republic. She demands that Morgan step down as magistrate, due to her mistreatment of the locals, and allow Corvus to join the New Republic. Morgan—who has received a vision that she believes is key to the future—kills Nadura and begins burning down Corvus's forests. Before she dies, Nadura sends a distress signal to Bo-Katan Kryze.Cast : Katee Sackhoff as Bo-Katan Kryze, Diana Lee Inosanto as Morgan Elsbeth, Shelby Young as Nadura, Steve Blum as a New Republic guard and Reggi, and Wing T. Chao as Wing "Devoted" Following Order 66 and the Galactic Republic's re-organization into the Empire, former Jedi Barriss Offee—who is serving a life sentence after turning on the Jedi Order and attacking the Jedi Temple—is brought to the under-construction Fortress Inquisitorius to be trained by the Grand Inquisitor. After she kills a fellow recruit in a duel, Barriss is welcomed as an Inquisitor and introduced to her new master, the Sith lord Darth Vader.Cast : Zeno Robinson as Ahmar, Meredith Salenger as Barriss Offee, Dee Bradley Baker as a clone trooper, Nicolas Cantu as Dante, Rya Kihlstedt as Lyn Rakish / Fourth Sister, and Jason Isaacs as the Grand Inquisitor "Realization" Barriss and the Fourth Sister, another Inquisitor, are sent to find a Jedi who is in hiding. They question some villagers and learn that the Jedi is on a nearby mountain. Barriss becomes disillusioned with the Empire when the Fourth Sister murders the villagers and then cuts down the Jedi after Barriss convinces them to surrender. Barriss uses the Force to push the Fourth Sister off the mountain and then aids the wounded Jedi.Cast : Meredith Salenger as Barriss Offee, Keith Ferguson as the governor, Rya Kihlstedt as Lyn Rakish / Fourth Sister, Ry Chase as the Jedi, and Jordyn Curet as the young girl "The Way Out" Years after leaving the Inquisitors, Barriss is a healer and teacher. She is visited by a family who are trying to protect their Force-sensitive child from the Fourth Sister, who follows them. Barriss traps the Fourth Sister in a maze as the family escapes, and attempts to convince her to turn to the light side of the Force. When she accidentally stabs Barriss with a lightsaber, the Fourth Sister feels regret and chooses to carry Barriss to safety.Cast : Steve Blum as attendant #1, Anna Graves as attendant #2, Meredith Salenger as Barriss Offee, Keston John as the father, Rya Kihlstedt as Lyn Rakish / Fourth Sister, and Suzie McGrath as the mother

Star Wars: The Bad Batch Star Wars: The Bad Batch is an American animated television series created by Dave Filoni for the streaming service Disney+. It is part of the Star Wars franchise and a spin-off from Star Wars: The Clone Wars, continuing from the end of that series to depict the aftermath of Order 66 and the end of the Clone Wars. The Bad Batch follows a unique squad of clone troopers with genetic mutations who resist Order 66 and go on the run in the early days of the Galactic Empire. They are joined by Omega, a young female clone. Dee Bradley Baker voices the Bad Batch, as well as most of the other clones in the series, as he did in The Clone Wars. Michelle Ang voices Omega. The series was announced in July 2020, after the final season of The Clone Wars introduced the Bad Batch based on an idea from Star Wars creator George Lucas. The Bad Batch was produced by Lucasfilm Animation, with Jennifer Corbett as head writer and Brad Rau as supervising director; Filoni, Corbett, and Rau served as executive producers with Athena Yvette Portillo. The first season premiered on May 4, 2021, and ran for 16 episodes until August 13. A 16-episode second season was released from January 4 to March 29, 2023, and a 15-episode third and final season was released from February 21 to May 1, 2024. The series has received positive reviews from critics, particularly for its animation and voice acting. "Aftermath" Clone Force 99, also known as "The Bad Batch", includes defective clone troopers Hunter, Tech, Crosshair, and Wrecker plus cyborg clone Echo. During the Clone Wars, the Bad Batch assists Jedi Master Depa Billaba and her Padawan learner Caleb Dume on Kaller. Order 66 is issued, triggering programming in the regular clones that makes them kill Billaba. The Bad Batch receives the order too, but only Crosshair feels compelled to obey it and Hunter lets Dume escape. Returning to the clone facilities on Kamino, the Bad Batch learns that the war is over and an Empire has replaced the Galactic Republic. They meet a young girl, Omega, who is another defective clone. Admiral Tarkin arrives to evaluate the clones and sends the Bad Batch to eliminate insurgents on Onderon. When they discover that these "insurgents" are refugees under Saw Gerrera who refuse to submit to the new Empire, the Bad Batch abandons the mission and returns for Omega. They are arrested for treason and Tarkin enhances Crosshair's programming, turning him against his squad. The rest of the Bad Batch flee with Omega. "Cut and Run" The Bad Batch and Omega seek refuge on Saleucami with clone deserter Cut Lawquane, who tells them about the inhibitor chips which programmed the regular clones and Crosshair to be loyal to the Empire after Order 66. With increased military presence from the Empire, Cut plans to escape with his family but they need newly introduced chain codes to book public transport. Cut would be arrested if he tried to obtain chain codes, so Tech and Echo steal some and Omega helps deliver them to Cut and his family in time for them to board the transport. Hunter wants Omega to go with Cut so she can have a family, but she decides to stay with the Bad Batch. "Replacements" The Bad Batch's ship, the Marauder, is damaged on Saleucami. They are stranded on a moon and an Ordo Moon Dragon steals the part they need to repair the ship. Hunter and Omega set out to retrieve it. When Hunter is incapacitated, Omega continues alone and retrieves the part without a fight. On Kamino, Tarkin and Vice Admiral Rampart put Crosshair in command of a new unit of conscripted soldiers. They are sent to Onderon to wipe out Gerrera's camp, but Gerrera is already gone. Crosshair kills a disloyal recruit, but the rest comply and are otherwise successful. Tarkin sees potential for conscripted soldiers, concerning Kaminoan prime minister Lama Su. "Cornered" On their way to a proposed hiding-place on Idaflor, the Bad Batch is forced to stop on the nearest planet, Pantora, so they can gather supplies and Tech can modify their ship's signature since it now appears on the Empire's wanted list. A landing bay attendant on Pantora identifies the Bad Batch and informs Fennec Shand, a mercenary who has been hired to retrieve Omega. Hunter, Echo, and Omega search for supplies while Tech and Wrecker work on the ship. Omega is approached by Shand, which leads to Hunter chasing Shand through the city. Hunter and Omega lose Shand, and after the modifications are completed the Bad Batch departs from Pantora. "Rampage" Hoping to discover who hired Shand, the Bad Batch goes to Ord Mantell where Echo knows of an informant named Cid. She offers to find out about Shand in exchange for their help: slavers have kidnapped a child named Muchi, and Cid will receive a reward from Jabba the Hutt if the Bad Batch helps her rescue the child. The Bad Batch finds and fights off the slavers, rescuing Muchi, who is a young rancor. Taking her to Cid, Muchi is then given to Jabba's right-hand man Bib Fortuna in exchange for the reward. Cid gives some of the reward to Hunter but is unable to learn who hired Shand. She offers to give the Bad Batch more mercenary work in the future. "Decommissioned" Cid hires the Bad Batch to retrieve a Separatist tactical droid with battle intel before it is destroyed at a Corellian decommissioning site. They run into smuggler sisters Trace and Rafa Martez, who are also after the droid. Wrecker's inhibitor chip begins to activate after he accidentally hits his head. Tech copies the tactical droid's data before it is destroyed when he and the sisters program it to turn on the police droids that are guarding the facility, allowing them to escape. The sisters explain that they were retrieving the droid for a client who is fighting the Empire, and Hunter decides to give them the data. Later, the sisters tell their client how to find the Bad Batch. "Battle Scars" After they fail to retrieve the tactical droid's data, Cid tells the Bad Batch that they will need to do a big job to pay off their debt to her. They are interrupted by the Martez sister's client, former clone captain Rex, who is alarmed to learn that the Bad Batch have yet to remove their inhibitor chips as he has. They go to Bracca, a starship graveyard planet controlled by the Scrapper Guild, and sneak onto an old Jedi cruiser to use its medical bay. Wrecker's chip forces him to attack his squad mates, but he is subdued and the chip is removed. Rex takes his leave once the extractions are completed; as they say goodbye, Hunter is seen by members of the Scrapper Guild. "Reunion" The Scrapper Guild informs the Empire of the Bad Batch's location, and Crosshair is sent to kill them. Concerned that Omega will not be returned safely, Lama Su hires a second bounty hunter to retrieve the girl. The Bad Batch attempts to reach the Marauder through the Jedi cruiser's ion engine. Crosshair pins them inside and has the engine turned on, but they use explosives salvaged from the cruiser's armory to escape and Crosshair is injured by the engine's ignition. Hunter and Omega are confronted by bounty hunter Cad Bane, who shoots Hunter and kidnaps Omega. The rest of the squad catch up, carry the injured Hunter to the Marauder, and escape. "Bounty Lost" While chasing after Bane, the Bad Batch learns from Tech that Omega is an unmodified clone of Jango Fett and so is the only available source of fresh cloning material for the Kaminoans. En route to an old Kaminoan cloning facility on Bora Vio for her delivery, Omega tricks Bane's droid aide Todo into releasing her and is able to signal the Bad Batch. Lama Su sends Taun We to retrieve Omega and orders Nala Se to eliminate the girl after extracting genetic samples from her. Nala Se cares for Omega and wants to keep her safe, so she sends Shand to rescue her. Shand kills Taun We and duels Bane, allowing Omega to escape and be retrieved by the Bad Batch. "Common Ground" On Raxus, which was the seat of the Separatist government during the Clone Wars, the Empire institutes new curfew laws with the support of local senator Avi Singh. However, Singh speaks out against the Empire while addressing the public and is arrested. His protocol droid GS-8 hires Cid to help rescue Singh, and she sends the Bad Batch; they are reluctant to help after fighting against the Separatists in the Clone Wars. Omega is left behind due to the bounty hunters that are targeting her, and she wins Cid enough money playing dejarik to pay off the Bad Batch's debt. With the help of GS-8, the Bad Batch rescues Singh and take him to Cid for payment. "Devil's Deal" When Senator Orn Free Taa announces a new Imperial refinery on Ryloth and encourages Twi'lek freedom fighters to disarm, resistance leader Cham Syndulla publicly supports the Empire. His lieutenant Gobi Glie takes Cham's daughter Hera on a secret mission to retrieve weapons from the Bad Batch, during which Hera befriends Omega. Crosshair tracks them, and the Empire arrests Glie and Hera for treason. Cham attacks the Imperial convoy to rescue them with his wife Eleni and other freedom fighters. Crosshair shoots Orn Free Taa, allowing Rampart to frame Cham for Taa's attempted assassination. Cham, Eleni, and Glie are arrested but Hera escapes. "Rescue on Ryloth" Hera contacts Omega and asks the Bad Batch to help rescue her parents. Hunter does not think this is worth the risk, but Omega convinces him. Hera, Omega, Tech, and Wrecker attack the new Imperial refinery on Ryloth as a distraction while Echo and Hunter free Cham, Eleni, and the other freedom fighters. Crosshair discovers this and sets a trap for them, but clone Captain Howzer—who is loyal to Cham—warns the escapees of the trap and then confronts his fellow soldiers. Howzer is arrested while the Bad Batch and freedom fighters escape. Rampart realizes that he has underestimated the Bad Batch and gives Crosshair permission to hunt them down. "Infested" The Bad Batch returns from a mission to find Cid's parlor under the ownership of crime boss Roland Durand. They find Cid outside, and she reveals a plan to take back the parlor by stealing a shipment of spice from Roland that is intended for the Pyke Syndicate. The Bad Batch and Cid enter her office via underground tunnels infested with a hive of Irlings. They retrieve the spice, but are chased by Roland's guards who awaken the hive. The group escape from the tunnels but lose the spice to the hive. They are caught by the Pykes, who take Omega hostage while the Bad Batch and Cid retrieve the spice from the hive. The Pykes then let Cid reclaim her parlor. "War-Mantle" Rex contacts the Bad Batch and asks them to respond to a distress signal from clone commando Gregor on the planet Daro. At the source of the signal, they find an Imperial base where conscripted soldiers are being trained by clone commandos to replace the clone trooper army. Hunter, Tech, and Echo infiltrate the base while Omega and Wrecker stay in the ship as backup. The Bad Batch rescues Gregor, but Hunter is captured during the escape. On Kamino, Lama Su and Nala Se plan to escape after the Empire cancels their clone army contracts, but they are caught by Rampart. He says the Empire has a use for Nala Se as a scientist, but not for Lama Su. "Return to Kamino" Hunter is taken to Tipoca City on Kamino, where the Empire has evacuated critical personnel and eliminated the rest. Crosshair activates Hunter's communicator to lure the rest of the Bad Batch there. Omega shows the others a hidden entrance into Nala Se's secret laboratory, where they were all created and where they find the friendly droid AZI-3. They find Hunter, who tries to convince Crosshair to have his inhibitor chip removed, but Crosshair reveals that it has already been removed and he is willingly working for the Empire. Hunter stuns Crosshair as Rampart, under the orders of Tarkin, begins destroying Tipoca City with the Bad Batch and Crosshair still inside. "Kamino Lost" Rampart and the Empire depart as the wreckage of Tipoca City sinks into the ocean. Omega and AZI-3 save Crosshair when they are trapped in a flooding room. Once the wreckage of the city settles on the ocean floor, the group make their way to an access tube that leads to the Marauder, but find it damaged. Crosshair suggests AZI-3 guide them to the surface inside lab capsules, but the droid runs out of power on their way up. Omega tries to save him at the risk of drowning, until Crosshair saves them both. When they reach the Marauder, Crosshair chooses to part ways with the Bad Batch. Nala Se is brought to a secret Imperial facility at Mount Tantiss. "Spoils of War" After a tip-off by her pirate friend Phee Genoa, Cid sends the Bad Batch to Serenno to steal part of Count Dooku's war chest. After some reluctance, Hunter agrees and the squad goes to the planet where they find the Empire already transporting the Count's wealth off world. While trying to steal some of the cargo, the Bad Batch is seen and a fight ensues during which Omega, Tech, and Echo are trapped inside a cargo ship preparing for lift-off. They fight their way to one of the cargo containers on the ship and escape inside it, attempting to use its own thrusters to make a safe landing. Meanwhile, Hunter and Wrecker are pursued through the ruins of a nearby city. "Ruins of War" The cargo container crashes on Serenno. While making their way back to the Marauder, Omega, Tech, and Echo meet local man Romar Adell who is hiding in the woods. Talking to him, they get a first impression of what a free life might be like. Omega sneaks away to try recover some of the cargo from the container; Echo and Tech go after her, resulting in a clash with Imperial search parties. Romar helps them escape. Hunter and Wrecker fight their way out of the city and reunite with the others. Learning that the Bad Batch survived the destruction of Tipoca City, Rampart fears punishment for his failure to eliminate them and decides not to inform Tarkin of this. "The Solitary Clone" Crosshair is assigned to clone commander Cody on a mission to the former Separatist planet Desix to rescue new Imperial governor Grotton, who has been taken hostage by a local resistance movement. Desix's former governor, Tawni Ames, demands that the planet remain out of Imperial jurisdiction and cites the Republic's refusal to broker peace with the Separatists during the Clone Wars. Cody argues for a peaceful resolution, but Crosshair kills Ames on Grotton's orders. Desix is brought under Imperial control. Returning to the Imperial capital Coruscant, Cody questions whether the Empire is doing good while Crosshair remains loyal. Cody deserts soon after. "Faster" While Hunter and Echo are away on an assignment, Cid takes Omega, Tech, and Wrecker to a race on Safa Toma. Cid is challenged by Millegi, one of her business rivals, and his racer Jet Venim. During the next round, Millegi orders Venim to cheat and this causes Cid's cocky droid racer TAY-0 to lose. When Millegi comes to collect, Omega challenges him to another race for Cid's freedom. Just before the next event, TAY-0 is wrecked in an accident. Tech takes TAY-0's place as Cid's pilot and uses his calculative intellect to offset his lack of experience, winning the race. Millegi honors his end of the deal, but warns the clones that Cid might turn against them one day. "Entombed" While searching a junkyard for useful salvage, Omega and Wrecker find an ancient compass with a set of coordinates for the uncharted Kaldar Trinary system. Believing this compass will lead them to hidden treasure, Phee and Omega persuade the Bad Batch to set out for the system. The compass leads them to the planet Skara Nal, the resting place of a legendary crystal known as the "Heart of the Mountain". They find the crystal and Phee takes it, activating a giant, ancient mech which begins destroying their surroundings. Fearing that the Marauder will be destroyed and leave them stranded, the others convince Phee to return the crystal. This destroys the mech. "Tribe" The Bad Batch goes to the criminal cartel Vanguard Axis to sell chain codes that Tech has forged. While there, Omega helps Gungi, a captive Wookiee Jedi youngling, escape from the cartel. Taking Gungi back to his homeworld Kashyyyk, the Bad Batch finds the planet being ravaged by a group of Trandoshan mercenaries who work for the Empire. After winning the trust of a local Wookiee tribe, the Bad Batch learns about the respect that the Wookiees have for the giant wroshyr trees. They join the Wookiees and the indigenous wildlife to enact a plan that the Wookiees say came from the trees. Together they defeat the Imperial forces and Gungi is reunited with his people. "The Clone Conspiracy" Rampart asks the Imperial Senate to authorize the replacement of the clone army with conscripted Stormtroopers. He has covered up the intentional destruction of Tipoca City, blaming it on a storm. Senator Riyo Chuchi advocates for the clones' rights and is approached by clone trooper Slip, whose friend was killed after questioning Rampart's storm story. Rampart sends an assassin to kill them. As Chuchi asks Slip to testify in front of the Senate, the assassin kills Slip and attacks Chuchi. She is rescued by Rex, who Slip had asked for help. Rex captures the assassin, who is a clone, but the assassin kills himself before he can be questioned. "Truth and Consequences" Rex asks the Bad Batch for help and they travel to Coruscant. Omega accompanies Chuchi to ask for support from other senators while Rex and the Bad Batch sneak aboard Rampart's Star Destroyer, which is undergoing maintenance, to retrieve proof of the Tipoca City cover-up. In the Senate, Chuchi exposes Rampart's lie and he is arrested. However, Emperor Palpatine argues that Rampart's attack was carried out by clones and so this revelation supports the need for a new, conscripted army; the Senate approves the bill. Before the Bad Batch leaves Coruscant, Echo decides to stay with Rex to help him fight for a better future for the clones. "The Crossing" Cid sends the Bad Batch to extract some ipsium mineral from a mine she recently purchased. While they are in the mine, the Marauder is stolen and they are stranded. Forced to trek towards a nearby spaceport, the Bad Batch is buried inside another mine when their ipsium is detonated by a lightning storm. Inside the new mine, Omega discovers an ipsium vein and tries to harvest it with Tech. They are separated from the others and have a talk about adapting to changes in life, such as Echo's departure, before they find another way out. They find the spaceport abandoned but manage to contact Cid, who grudgingly agrees to pick them up in a few days. "Retrieval" The Marauder is taken by its thief, a young boy named Benni Baro, to gang boss Mokko at a nearby ipsium mining facility. Mokko prepares to strip the ship for parts to sell. At the spaceport, Omega devises a way to track the Marauder and the Bad Batch finds the facility. Infiltrating it, they find Benni and force him to take them to the ship. Benni, hoping to gain Mokko's favor, betrays the Bad Batch's presence. Just before they are captured, Omega discovers that Mokko has been exploiting his workers for his own profit. With this revelation, Benni turns his comrades against Mokko, who falls to his death. The Bad Batch fixes the Marauder and leaves the planet. "Metamorphosis" Dr. Royce Hemlock assumes control of the Imperial cloning facility at Mount Tantiss, where Nala Se refuses to help with the Emperor's cloning projects. A covert transport bound for the facility is stranded and Cid assigns the Bad Batch to recover its cargo. While exploring the wreck, they discover that the cargo is an immature Zillo Beast that was created by the Empire through cloning. An Imperial strike force is sent to recover the beast and capture any witnesses, forcing the Bad Batch to retreat. In return for his freedom, Lama Su is brought to the Tantiss facility to persuade Nala Se to cooperate with Hemlock. Lama Su tells Hemlock that Nala Se cares for Omega. "The Outpost" Crosshair is assigned to Lieutenant Nolan, who dislikes clones. At a remote Imperial outpost on Barton IV, two crates of classified cargo are stolen. Nolan orders Crosshair and clone commander Mayday to recover the cargo. The pair eliminate the thieves and find the cargo, which is Stormtrooper armor. An avalanche injures Mayday and buries the cargo. At the outpost, Nolan chastises them for their failure and refuses to provide a medic for Mayday, who succumbs to his injuries. Fed up with Nolan's arrogance and disrespect of clones, Crosshair kills him. After losing consciousness, Crosshair wakes up as a prisoner in the Tantiss facility and meets Dr. Emerie Karr. "Pabu" After Cid did not come to rescue them from the mining planet, the Bad Batch and Omega informally cut ties with her. They help Phee recover a lost artifact, and she convinces them to accompany her to the peaceful island of Pabu which she thinks could be a safe place for them to live away from the Empire. They are hosted by Mayor Shep Hazard and his daughter Lyana, who befriends Omega. When a tsunami threatens the lower levels of the city, Hunter rescues Omega and Lyana from a boat while Tech and Wrecker help Shep and Phee evacuate the population of the lower levels. After the tsunami, the Bad Batch agrees to stay on Pabu and help rebuild. "Tipping Point" Howzer and other clones imprisoned for disobedience against the Empire are rescued en route to Tantiss by Echo, Gregor, and other rogue clones. At Tantiss, Hemlock interrogates Crosshair about the whereabouts of Omega and the Bad Batch. Crosshair is left unattended for a moment and escapes long enough to send a message to the Bad Batch, warning them that the Empire is looking for Omega, before being subjected to intense torture. Echo joins the Bad Batch on Pabu with data he retrieved during the rescue. After receiving Crosshair's message and analyzing Echo's data, the Bad Batch learns about the Empire's secret Advanced Science Division (ASD). "The Summit" The Bad Batch trails Hemlock to a summit, hosted by Tarkin on Eriadu, which concerns top-secret Imperial programs including the ASD's cloning research and "Project Stardust". As they sneak into the base where the summit is held, the Bad Batch discovers that Saw Gerrera has also infiltrated the compound to assassinate the assembled top-level Imperial officers. They ask Gerrera not to complete his mission so they can follow Hemlock back to the ASD's secret facility, but Gerrera sets off explosives when the intruders are discovered. The Bad Batch attempts to escape using the base's railcar system, but this is disrupted by the explosions and they are stranded. "Plan 99" With their railcar stuck and under attack from Imperial forces, Tech sacrifices his life to boost the others away from the Empire. They retreat to Cid's parlor on Ord Mantell to treat their injuries and come to terms with their loss. They soon realize that Cid has betrayed them to Hemlock, who arrives and captures Hunter and Wrecker. This forces Omega to come into the open. Echo and AZI-3 rescue Hunter and Wrecker, but Omega is captured and taken to Tantiss. Hemlock uses Omega's presence to encourage Nala Se to work on their projects. Omega encounters Crosshair and Emerie Karr; the latter reveals herself to also be a clone, making her Omega's genetic sister. "Confined" At the Tantiss facility, Omega is forced to work with Nala Se and Emerie on the cloning program. She takes daily blood samples from clones, including herself; Nala Se secretly discards the samples of Omega's blood before they can be used. Omega also feeds the facility's lurca hounds and befriends one of them, which she names Batcher. Omega evades the guards to speak with Crosshair, who attempts to discourage her from planning an escape. When the Imperials decide to euthanize Batcher for becoming too domesticated, Omega releases her into the jungle outside the facility. Hemlock warns Omega that further defiance will result in consequences for Crosshair. "Paths Unknown" Hunter and Wrecker gain intel on Hemlock's base from the Durand crime family, but it leads them to an old abandoned facility. They run into former clone cadets Mox, Zeke, and Stak who were left behind when the Empire destroyed and abandoned the facility. The area is now covered in slither vines, an Imperial experiment gone awry. Zeke helps Hunter and Wrecker avoid the vines and enter the facility to access any data it has on Hemlock's operation. The trio are attacked by the slither vines, which are revealed to be the tentacles of a huge monster. Mox and Stak use the Marauder to rescue the others, and Hunter promises to take the cadets to Pabu. "Shadows of Tantiss" Emperor Palpatine travels to Tantiss for an update on "Project Necromancer", which he believes is vital for the future of the Empire. It has so far failed to reproduce a subject's "M-count" in a clone. When Emerie begins testing a sample of Omega's blood, Nala Se urges Omega to escape. Omega frees Crosshair and they go into the jungle, searching for a recently crashed shuttle. Emerie alerts security and a search team are sent. Crosshair and Omega, joined by Batcher, steal the search team's shuttle. They are pursued by fighters, but Hemlock calls them off when Emerie realizes that they need Omega alive because her blood can be used to replicate an M-count. "A Different Approach" With their shuttle damaged, Omega and Crosshair crash-land on the planet Lau. At a nearby spaceport, Crosshair wants to use force to hijack a ship but Omega insists on acquiring the money they need to bribe a clerk. While Omega uses her gambling skills to get the money, Batcher is taken by Imperial troops. Omega goes after her and Crosshair reluctantly follows. When they are cornered by Imperials, Omega agrees to let Crosshair use his skills to resolve the situation his way; they defeat the troops, free Batcher, and escape in a stolen freighter. The pair rendezvous with Hunter and Wrecker, who are overjoyed to see Omega but less happy to see Crosshair. "The Return" Echo returns to Pabu, and the Bad Batch discusses the experiments being conducted at Tantiss. Omega has a datapad from the facility that could give them some answers, and Crosshair suggests they access it with an Imperial computer terminal at the outpost on Barton IV. Finding the base abandoned, they divert power from its defense perimeter so they can connect to the datapad. This allows a large creature to attack the base. Crosshair and Hunter distract the creature while the others turn the defense perimeter back on. The Bad Batch leaves the planet with information recovered from the datapad and Crosshair having earned the trust of his squad mates again. "Infiltration" Guarded by Rex and his fellow rogue clones, former senator Singh meets with Senator Chuchi to discuss their efforts to oppose the Empire. They are attacked by a clone assassin, CX-1, who Rex captures. CX-1 carries a target register that includes Omega, so Rex summons the Bad Batch to his base on Teth. Omega and Crosshair reveal what they know about the ASD's experiments and the "Clone X" assassin program, which strips clones of their identities to make them perfect assassins. Another assassin, CX-2, is sent to kill the captured CX-1, which he does. CX-2 then sees Omega and calls for reinforcements, who are led by clone commander Wolffe. "Extraction" The Bad Batch, Rex, and a few surviving rogue clones attempt to escape the base, pursued by Wolffe's men and CX-2. CX-2 shoots down the fugitive's escape shuttle, frustrating Wolffe because Omega is needed alive. The fugitives begin a rough trek to an extraction point where they plan to meet Echo and Gregor. CX-2 pursues them and fights Crosshair before falling over a waterfall, from which he later emerges alive. At the extraction point, Wolffe is surprised to see his old friend Rex is alive. Rex tells Wolffe what the Empire is doing to clones, and Wolffe lets them get away. Rex tells Hunter that they need to find out why Omega is so important to the Empire. "Bad Territory" The Bad Batch asks Phee to investigate the Empire's M-count experiments, and she reports that bounty hunters have been hired to search for subjects with high M-counts. Believing Shand may know more about this, Hunter and Wrecker seek her out. Omega and Crosshair stay on Pabu and Omega tries to help Crosshair overcome a mental block that is affecting his sniper skills. Shand offers to provide Hunter and Wrecker with information if they help her capture her current target, Sylar Saris. After they have captured Saris, Shand says she will be in touch with the information. She then secretly informs another party about the Bad Batch and their questions. "The Harbinger" Shand's contact, Asajj Ventress, comes to Pabu. She tells the Bad Batch that the M-count signifies a person's innate connection to the Force and starts testing Omega's ability using Jedi techniques. The Bad Batch is concerned when they realize Ventress was a Separatist assassin during the Clone Wars, but Omega trusts her. During their final test at sea, Ventress inadvertently summons a sea monster which attacks them. She pacifies the creature and rescues Omega, gaining the Bad Batch's trust. Ventress tells Omega that her M-count is low, but later indicates to the others that she was lying about this. She also warns them that they may not be safe on Pabu. "Identity Crisis" Hemlock imprisons Nala Se, believing she helped Omega and Crosshair escape, and reluctantly promotes Emerie to be the new lead scientist of Project Necromancer. Emerie learns that the subjects being tested on are children with high M-counts that have been delivered to Tantiss by bounty hunters like Bane. She slowly becomes disillusioned with the Empire as she witnesses the cold and restrictive manner in which the children are being treated. Tarkin threatens to take away Hemlock's funding if the ASD does not produce the desired results. CX-2 reports to Hemlock that he is close to finding Omega after learning about her connection to Phee by torturing Cid. "Point of No Return" CX-2 sneaks aboard Phee's ship and retrieves Pabu's location from its navigation computer. Concerned about the risk of staying on Pabu, the Bad Batch prepares to leave the planet when CX-2 arrives and confirms their presence. He destroys the Marauder, seriously injures Wrecker, and calls for reinforcements. With their means of escape cut off, the rest of the Bad Batch evade their pursuers while Hunter tries to steal an Imperial gunship. He is shot down by CX-2. Omega decides to surrender herself, to spare the people of Pabu and hoping the Bad Batch can follow her to Tantiss. However, Crosshair's attempt to plant a tracker fails as CX-2 leaves with Omega. "Juggernaut" CX-2 returns Omega to Tantiss, where Emerie tests her blood and confirms that it is what they need. Hemlock takes Omega to be held with the other young Project Necromancer test subjects. Once the Imperial forces leave Pabu, Crosshair suggests to Hunter and Wrecker that they get the location for Tantiss from Rampart, who is imprisoned in an Imperial labor camp on Erebus. With Phee's help they infiltrate Erebus, hijack a prison transfer vehicle, and escape with Rampart. On Phee's ship, Rampart explains that no one knows Tantiss's coordinates but he is willing to help them find the facility in exchange for not being returned to the labor camp. "Into the Breach" Omega is introduced to her fellow Project Necromancer test subjects: Eva, Jax, Sami, and Bayrn. She tells them that she has escaped from Tantiss before and plans to do so again using a passage behind their cell walls. The Bad Batch and Rampart rendezvous with Echo and a stolen Imperial shuttle, which they use to infiltrate an Imperial relay station at Coruscant to find the coordinates for Tantiss. Unable to extract the information from the station's databanks, Echo decides to sneak aboard a science shuttle bound for Tantiss and disable its proximity sensors. This allows the others to dock on the vessel in their stolen shuttle just as it enters hyperspace. "Flash Strike" Hemlock is alerted that the Bad Batch infiltrated the relay station and sends fighters to intercept the incoming vessel. Hunter, Wrecker, Crosshair, and Rampart are forced to crash near Mount Tantiss and continue on foot, hunted by Stormtrooper patrols. With the base on high alert, Omega takes advantage of the distraction to scout her planned escape route and finds the Zillo Beast in an underground enclosure. In the jungle, Rampart accidentally awakens a large creature that attacks them, is separated from the others, and gets captured. Echo infiltrates the base and encounters Emerie, who tells him about the other children being held with Omega. "The Cavalry Has Arrived" The children escape and free the Zillo Beast, which goes on a rampage through the facility, before finding Echo and Emerie. Hunter, Wrecker, and Crosshair infiltrate the base but are captured by Hemlock's CX operatives. Echo and Omega free Nala Se, Rampart, and the other clone prisoners while Emerie takes the other children to safety. Nala Se goes to destroy the facility's data, to protect Omega and prevent the Empire from using her research, but Rampart kills her and plans to use the research for leverage with the Empire. Before she dies, Nala Se uses a grenade to destroy the data and kill Rampart. Hemlock attempts to convert Hunter, Wrecker, and Crosshair into operatives, but Echo, Omega, and the other clones free them and defeat the existing operatives. Hemlock takes Omega hostage, but she helps Hunter and Crosshair kill him. They all escape to Pabu. Tarkin shuts down Tantiss and diverts its funding to Project Stardust. Emerie decides to join Echo in helping other clones while Omega and the Bad Batch remain on Pabu. Years later, an adult Omega leaves to join a rebellion against the Empire.

Star Wars: The Clone Wars (2008 TV series) Star Wars: The Clone Wars is an American animated television series created by George Lucas. It is part of the Star Wars multimedia franchise, and is set predominantly between the events of Star Wars: Episode II – Attack of the Clones (2002) and Star Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith (2005). Lucas, who closely collaborated with supervising director Dave Filoni on the series, called it a continuation of the previous Genndy Tartakovsky-produced 2003 Clone Wars series. The series began with a theatrical feature film that was released on August 15, 2008, and debuted on Cartoon Network two months later on October 3, 2008. In early 2013, Lucasfilm announced that The Clone Wars would be "winding down". Thirteen episodes comprising a new sixth season were made available in the U.S. for streaming on Netflix, along with the entirety of the series, beginning March 7, 2014. A project known as The Clone Wars Legacy adapted unproduced story arcs into other formats, such as comics and novels. The series was revived for a seventh and final season of 12 new episodes, which premiered on Disney+ on February 21, 2020. The Clone Wars received at first mostly positive reception and later acclaim from critics and became a significant ratings success, becoming Cartoon Network's highest-rated show during its initial run. The series was also nominated for numerous industry awards, including the Daytime Emmy Awards and the Annie Awards. Some characters created for The Clone Wars have gone on to appear in other works, including the animated series Star Wars Rebels (2014–2018) and Star Wars: Tales (2022–present), and the live-action series The Mandalorian (2019–present), The Book of Boba Fett (2021–2022), and a spin-off of the former focused on one of The Clone Wars' main characters, Ahsoka Tano. A sequel series, titled Star Wars: The Bad Batch, premiered on Disney+ on May 4, 2021. Cast and characters Main Recurring Notable guests

Star Wars: The Clone Wars (film) Star Wars: The Clone Wars is a 2008 American animated epic space opera film directed by Dave Filoni, produced by Lucasfilm Ltd., and distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures, becoming the first Star Wars film to not be distributed by 20th Century Fox. It is the first fully animated film in the Star Wars franchise and takes place shortly after Episode II – Attack of the Clones (2002), at the start of the titular Clone Wars. In the film, Count Dooku and Jabba the Hutt's uncle Ziro orchestrate a plan to turn Jabba against the Galactic Republic by framing the Jedi for the kidnapping of his son. While Anakin Skywalker and his newly assigned apprentice Ahsoka Tano attempt to deliver the child back to his father, Obi-Wan Kenobi and Padmé Amidala lead separate investigations to uncover Dooku and Ziro's plot. The Clone Wars premiered on August 10, 2008, at Grauman's Egyptian Theatre, followed by a wide release five days later. It received generally negative reviews from critics, who criticized the screenplay and animation. Despite grossing $68.3 million worldwide against a $8.5 million budget, it grossed considerably less than previous Star Wars films and is currently the lowest grossing to date. The film serves as a pilot episode to the television series of the same name, which premiered on Cartoon Network two months after the film's release. Plot Early in the Clone Wars, Galactic Republic forces find themselves stranded across the Outer Rim as the Separatists gain control of more hyperspace lanes. Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker leads Republic forces against Count Dooku's Separatist army on Christophsis with his master Obi-Wan Kenobi and clone captain Rex. However, the clone army is soon overwhelmed by the Separatists. As the Republic waits for reinforcements, a young Jedi named Ahsoka Tano, who was sent by Grand Master Yoda to become Anakin's padawan, arrives while the Separatist commander Loathsom activates an energy field. Anakin works together with Ahsoka and Obi-Wan to destroy the energy field. Meanwhile, Dooku, looking to secure a partnership with the Hutts, has kidnapped Rotta, the son of Jabba the Hutt. Obi-Wan negotiates with Jabba, promising the safe return of his son, while Anakin leads a clone army to the planet of Teth to rescue Rotta, who is being held inside a monastery. He and Ahsoka rescue Rotta, who is falling ill, as they discover that Dooku has led the two Jedi into a trap; Dooku has staged the kidnapping himself in order for the Hutts to blacklist the Jedi and allowing the Separatists to gain the support of the Hutts. While Anakin and Ahsoka escape the monastery with Rotta and R2-D2, the assassin Asajj Ventress, who had earlier neutralized a group of bounty hunters Jabba sent to retrieve his son, obtains footage of Anakin expressing his distaste with the Hutts, which is shown to Jabba. Obi-Wan arrives at the Teth monastery and duels briefly with Ventress. Meanwhile, Padmé Amidala goes to Coruscant to confront Jabba's uncle Ziro, who she finds out has conspired with Dooku to engineer the downfall of his nephew, Jabba, which would allow him to seize power over the Hutt clans. However, Padmé is soon discovered and detained, but with the help of C-3PO, is broken out, with Ziro soon arrested. Anakin and Ahsoka, who had now gained the respect of one another, travel to Tatooine to return Rotta to his father. However, their ship comes under fire from Separatist forces and crash-lands far away from Jabba's palace. On his way to Jabba's palace, Anakin is intercepted by Dooku. They engage in a lightsaber duel; Dooku realizes that Anakin does not have Rotta on him. Anakin had been carrying a backpack filled with rocks to deceive Dooku as Ahsoka delivers Rotta, who is unharmed, to Jabba. However, Jabba orders their execution. Padmé tells Jabba of his uncle's duplicity, and he reassures her that the Hutt Clan will punish Ziro harshly. A treaty is signed that allows Republic forces to pass through Jabba's territory. Voice cast

Star Wars: The Force Awakens Star Wars: The Force Awakens (also known as Star Wars: Episode VII – The Force Awakens) is a 2015 American epic space opera film co-produced, co-written, and directed by J. J. Abrams. The sequel to Return of the Jedi (1983), it is the seventh film in the "Skywalker Saga". Set thirty years after Return of the Jedi, The Force Awakens follows Rey, Finn, Poe Dameron, and Han Solo's search for Luke Skywalker and their fight in the Resistance, led by General Leia Organa and veterans of the Rebel Alliance, against Kylo Ren and the First Order, a successor to the Galactic Empire. The ensemble cast includes Harrison Ford, Mark Hamill, Carrie Fisher, Adam Driver, Daisy Ridley, John Boyega, Oscar Isaac, Lupita Nyong'o, Andy Serkis, Domhnall Gleeson, Anthony Daniels, Peter Mayhew, and Max von Sydow. Work on a seventh entry in the "Skywalker Saga" commenced after the Walt Disney Company's acquisition of Lucasfilm in 2012. The film is the first Star Wars film to not extensively involve franchise creator George Lucas, who only served as a creative consultant in the early stages of production. The Force Awakens was produced by Abrams, his longtime collaborator Bryan Burk, and Lucasfilm president Kathleen Kennedy. Abrams and Lawrence Kasdan, co-writer of the original trilogy films The Empire Strikes Back (1980) and Return of the Jedi, rewrote an initial script by Michael Arndt. John Williams, composer for the previous episodic films, returned to compose the score. Principal photography began in April 2014 and concluded the following November. Filming took place on sets at Pinewood Studios in England, and on location mainly in Abu Dhabi, Iceland, and Ireland. On a budget of $447 million, it is the most expensive film ever made. The Force Awakens premiered in Hollywood, Los Angeles, on December 14, 2015, and was released in the United States on December 18. It was positively received by critics, who found it an action-packed film with the mix of new and familiar actors capturing the nostalgia of the original trilogy and giving the franchise new energy. The film grossed $2.07 billion worldwide, breaking various box office records and becoming the highest-grossing film in the United States and Canada, the highest-grossing film of 2015, and the third-highest-grossing film at the time of its release. It was nominated for five awards at the 88th Academy Awards and received numerous other accolades. The film was followed by The Last Jedi (2017) and The Rise of Skywalker (2019), rounding out the Star Wars sequel trilogy. Plot Thirty years after the Battle of Endor, the First Order has risen from the fallen Galactic Empire and seeks to end the New Republic. The Resistance, led by General Leia Organa, opposes the First Order. Leia searches for her twin brother, Luke Skywalker, who is missing. On the desert planet Jakku, Resistance pilot Poe Dameron receives a map to Luke's location. First Order stormtroopers commanded by Kylo Ren arrive and capture Poe. His droid, BB-8, escapes with the map and encounters Rey, a lone scavenger. Kylo tortures Poe using the Force and learns of BB-8. Stormtrooper FN-2187, disillusioned with the First Order, saves Poe, and they escape in a stolen TIE fighter. Upon learning that FN-2187 has no other name, Poe names him "Finn". As they head to Jakku to retrieve BB-8, a First Order Star Destroyer shoots them, and they crash-land. Finn survives and assumes Poe was killed after finding his jacket in the wreck. Finn encounters Rey and BB-8, but the First Order tracks them and launches an airstrike. Rey, Finn, and BB-8 steal the Millennium Falcon and escape Jakku. The Falcon is discovered and boarded by Han Solo and Chewbacca. Gangs seeking to settle debts with Han attack, but the group escapes in the Falcon. At the First Order's Starkiller Base, a planet converted into a superweapon, Supreme Leader Snoke approves General Hux's request to use the weapon for the first time on the New Republic. Snoke questions Kylo's ability to deal with emotions surrounding his father, Han Solo, whom Kylo states means nothing to him. Aboard the Falcon, Han determines that BB-8's map is incomplete. He then explains that Luke attempted to rebuild the Jedi Order but exiled himself when an apprentice turned to the dark side, destroyed Luke's temple, and slaughtered the other apprentices. The crew travels to the planet Takodana and meets with cantina owner Maz Kanata, who offers help getting BB-8 to the Resistance. The Force draws Rey to a secluded vault, where she finds Anakin Skywalker's lightsaber. She experiences disturbing visions, including a childhood memory of a ship leaving her on Jakku. Rey denies the lightsaber at Maz's offering and flees into the woods. Maz gives Finn the lightsaber for safekeeping. Starkiller Base destroys the New Republic and its four neighboring planets, leaving the Resistance on their own. The First Order attacks Takodana in search of BB-8. Han, Chewbacca, and Finn are saved by Resistance X-wing fighters led by Poe, who survived the crash. Leia arrives at Takodana with C-3PO and reunites with Han. Meanwhile, Kylo captures Rey, having realized that she had seen the map, and takes her to Starkiller Base, but she resists his mind-reading attempts. Snoke orders Kylo to bring Rey to him. Discovering she can use the Force, Rey escapes using a Jedi mind trick on a stormtrooper guard. At the Resistance base, BB-8 finds R2-D2, who had been in low-power mode since Luke's disappearance. As Starkiller Base prepares to fire once more, the Resistance plans to destroy it by attacking its thermal oscillator. Using the Falcon, Han, Chewbacca, and Finn infiltrate the facility, find Rey, and plant explosives. Han confronts Kylo, calling him by his birth-name Ben, and implores him to abandon the dark side. Kylo seems to consider this but ultimately kills Han. Chewbacca shoots Kylo, injuring him, and sets off the explosives, allowing Poe to attack and destroy the base's thermal oscillator. Kylo pursues Rey and Finn into the woods and incapacitates Rey. Finn uses the lightsaber to duel Kylo but is quickly defeated. Rey awakens, takes the lightsaber, and defeats Kylo in a duel. Snoke orders Hux to evacuate and bring Kylo to him to complete his training. Chewbacca saves Rey and the injured Finn, and they escape aboard the Falcon. As the Resistance forces flee, Starkiller Base implodes and erupts into a star. R2-D2 awakens and reveals the rest of the map, which points to the oceanic planet Ahch-To. Rey, Chewbacca, and R2-D2 travel to Ahch-To on the Falcon. Rey finds Luke atop a cliff on a remote island and presents him with his lightsaber. Cast Tim Rose and Mike Quinn reprise their respective roles as Admiral Ackbar and Nien Nunb from Return of the Jedi, with Erik Bauersfeld and Kipsang Rotich returning their respective voices. Kenny Baker, originally announced as part of the cast, was credited as "consultant" for R2-D2, with Jimmy Vee performing some of the work for R2-D2. Ewan McGregor has an uncredited vocal cameo as Obi-Wan Kenobi in Rey's vision sequence, while archival audio of Frank Oz and Alec Guinness as Yoda and Kenobi, respectively, are also used in the same scene; Oz recorded new dialogue for the film, but it was replaced with preexisting audio from The Empire Strikes Back. Star Wars: The Clone Wars voice actor James Arnold Taylor, who has voiced Obi-Wan Kenobi in different Star Wars media, originally recorded Kenobi's dialogue, but his recordings were replaced with McGregor's. Gwendoline Christie portrays Captain Phasma, the commander of the First Order's legions of stormtroopers. Dave Chapman and Brian Herring served as puppeteers for BB-8, with Bill Hader and Ben Schwartz credited as "Vocal Consultants". Ken Leung appears as Statura, an admiral in the Resistance. Simon Pegg appears as Unkar Plutt, the Junk parts dealer on Jakku. Greg Grunberg plays Temmin "Snap" Wexley, an X-wing pilot. Kiran Shah plays Teedo, a scavenger on Jakku who rides a semi-mechanical Luggabeast. Jessica Henwick appears as Jess "Testor" Pava or Jess Testor, an X-wing pilot. Brian Vernel appears as Bala-Tik, the leader of the Guavian Death Gang. Yayan Ruhian and Iko Uwais appear as Tasu Leech and Razoo Qin-Fee, members of the Kanjiklub Gang, a criminal organization. Warwick Davis appears as Wollivan, a tavern-dweller in Maz Kanata's castle. Anna Brewster appears as Bazine Netal, a First Order spy, also at Maz Kanata's castle. Hannah John-Kamen appears as a First Order officer. Thomas Brodie-Sangster and Kate Fleetwood play First Order Petty Officers, Thanisson and Unamo, respectively. Billie Lourd, daughter of Carrie Fisher, appears as Connix, a lieutenant in the Resistance. Members of the Resistance include Emun Elliott as Brance and Maisie Richardson-Sellers as Korr Sella while Harriet Walter appears as Kalonia, the doctor who tends to Chewbacca. Mark Stanley appears as a Knight of Ren. Sebastian Armesto portrays Lieutenant Mitaka and Pip Torrens portrays Colonel Kaplan, both serving the First Order. Daniel Craig, Michael Giacchino, and Nigel Godrich cameo as stormtroopers. Abrams' assistant, Morgan Dameron, appears as a Resistance officer, while his father, Gerald W. Abrams, appears as Captain Cypress. Dialect coach Andrew Jack portrays Resistance Major Caluan Ematt. Additionally, Crystal Clarke, Pip Andersen, Christina Chong, Miltos Yerolemou, Amybeth Hargreaves, Leanne Best, Judah Friedlander, and Kevin Smith appear in minor roles. Riot control stormtrooper FN-2199, who calls Finn a traitor during the battle on Takodana, was portrayed by stunt performer Liang Yang and voiced by sound editor David Acord.

Star Wars: The Last Jedi Star Wars: The Last Jedi (also known as Star Wars: Episode VIII – The Last Jedi) is a 2017 American epic space opera film written and directed by Rian Johnson. Produced by Lucasfilm and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures, it is the second installment of the Star Wars sequel trilogy, following The Force Awakens (2015), and the eighth episode of the nine-part "Skywalker saga". The film's ensemble cast includes Mark Hamill, Carrie Fisher, Adam Driver, Daisy Ridley, John Boyega, Oscar Isaac, Andy Serkis, Lupita Nyong'o, Domhnall Gleeson, Anthony Daniels, Gwendoline Christie, Kelly Marie Tran, Laura Dern, and Benicio del Toro. The Last Jedi follows Rey as she seeks the aid of Luke Skywalker in hopes of turning the tide for the Resistance in the fight against Kylo Ren and the First Order while General Leia Organa, Finn, and Poe Dameron attempt to escape a First Order attack on the dwindling Resistance fleet. The film features the first posthumous film performance by Fisher, who died in December 2016, and the film is dedicated to her memory. The Last Jedi is part of a new trilogy of films announced after Disney's acquisition of Lucasfilm in October 2012. It was produced by Lucasfilm president Kathleen Kennedy and Ram Bergman and executive produced by The Force Awakens director J. J. Abrams. John Williams, composer for the previous episodic films, returned to compose the score. A number of scenes were filmed at Skellig Michael in Ireland during pre-production in September 2015, but principal photography began at Pinewood Studios in England in February 2016 and wrapped that July. The Last Jedi premiered in Los Angeles on December 9, 2017, and was released in the United States on December 15. It grossed over $1.3 billion worldwide, becoming the highest-grossing film of 2017 and the ninth-highest-grossing film of all time by the time its theatrical run was over. It is also the second-highest-grossing Star Wars film and turned a net profit of over $417 million. The film was well received by critics and received four nominations at the 90th Academy Awards, including Best Original Score and Best Visual Effects, as well as two nominations at the 71st British Academy Film Awards. A sequel, The Rise of Skywalker, concluded the sequel trilogy in 2019. Plot Shortly after the battle of Starkiller Base, General Leia Organa and the Resistance forces are evacuating their base when the First Order fleet arrives. Against Leia's orders, Poe Dameron leads a costly counterattack that destroys a First Order dreadnought. The remaining Resistance escapes into hyperspace, but the First Order uses a device to track them and attacks again. Kylo Ren hesitates to fire on the lead Resistance ship after sensing his mother Leia's presence on board, but his wingmen destroy the bridge, killing most of the Resistance's leaders. Leia is dragged into space but survives by using the Force. While Leia recovers, Vice-Admiral Holdo assumes command of the Resistance. Running low on fuel, the remaining fleet is pursued by the First Order. On Ahch-To, Rey attempts to recruit Luke Skywalker to the Resistance. Under self-imposed exile, Luke refuses to help and declares that the Jedi should end. After encouragement from R2-D2, he agrees to give Rey three lessons in the ways of the Force. Lured by the dark side, Rey searches for answers about her parents and begins communicating with Kylo through the Force, which puzzles them both. Kylo tells Rey that Luke feared his power. Luke confesses that he momentarily contemplated killing Kylo upon sensing that Snoke was corrupting him, which prompted Kylo to destroy Luke's new Jedi Order. Convinced that Kylo can be redeemed, Rey leaves Ahch-To. Luke prepares to burn the Jedi library but hesitates. The spirit of Luke's master Yoda appears and destroys the library by summoning a bolt of lightning. He encourages Luke to learn from his failure. Meanwhile, Poe entrusts Finn, mechanic Rose, and BB-8 with a secret mission to disable the First Order's tracking device. Maz Kanata directs them to the casino town of Canto Bight, where they meet the hacker DJ. Pursued by the local security, they escape Canto Bight with the help of stablehand children and fathier, a sentient racing animal they set free. Finn, Rose, and DJ infiltrate Snoke's flagship but are captured by Captain Phasma. Rey also infiltrates the flagship and is captured by Kylo, who brings her before Snoke. Snoke reveals that he connected their minds to discover Luke's whereabouts. Holdo plans to evacuate the remaining members of the Resistance using small transport vessels. Believing her plan cowardly and futile, Poe leads a mutiny. A recovered Leia stuns Poe with a blaster and proceeds with the evacuation. Holdo remains aboard the ship as a decoy to mislead Snoke's fleet as the others flee to an abandoned base on Crait. DJ buys his freedom by revealing the Resistance's plan to General Hux, and the First Order fleet begins firing on the evacuation transports, destroying many. Ordered to kill Rey, Kylo instead kills Snoke and defeats his Praetorian Guard with her help. Rey hopes that Kylo has abandoned the dark side, but he instead asks her to rule the galaxy with him. Refusing, she battles him for control of Luke's lightsaber, bisecting the weapon. Holdo sacrifices herself by slicing through Snoke's flagship at hyperspace, crippling the First Order fleet. Rey escapes the destruction while Kylo declares himself Supreme Leader. BB-8 frees Finn and Rose; they defeat Phasma and join the survivors on Crait. When the First Order arrives, Poe, Finn, and Rose attack with obsolete speeders. Rey and Chewbacca draw TIE fighters away in the Millennium Falcon, while Rose stops Finn from sacrificing himself. The First Order penetrates the Resistance fortress using a siege cannon. Luke appears and confronts the First Order, allowing the surviving Resistance to escape. Kylo orders the First Order's forces to fire on Luke, but they fail to harm him. He then engages Luke in a lightsaber duel; upon striking Luke, Kylo realizes that Luke is not physically present, but projecting his image through the Force. Rey helps the remaining Resistance escape on the Falcon. Exhausted, Luke dies peacefully on Ahch-To, becoming one with the Force. Rey and Leia sense his death, and Leia tells Rey that the Resistance can rise again. At Canto Bight, the stablehands recount the story of Luke Skywalker; afterward, one of them moves a broom with the Force and gazes into space. Cast Frank Oz returns as Yoda, the deceased former Jedi Master and Luke's wise mentor, who appears as a Force spirit. Joonas Suotamo appears as Chewbacca, taking over the role from Peter Mayhew after previously serving as his body double in The Force Awakens. Mayhew, who suffered from chronic knee and back pain, was credited as "Chewbacca consultant". Billie Lourd, Mike Quinn, and Timothy D. Rose reprise their roles as Lieutenant Connix, Nien Nunb, and Admiral Ackbar, respectively; with Tom Kane voicing Ackbar. Amanda Lawrence appears as Commander D'Acy, and Mark Lewis Jones and Adrian Edmondson play Captains Canady and Peavey, respectively. BB-8 is controlled by puppeteers Dave Chapman and Brian Herring, with initial voice work by Ben Schwartz and final sound effects voiced by Bill Hader modulated through a synthesizer. Jimmy Vee portrays R2-D2, taking over the role from Kenny Baker, who died in August 2016. Veronica Ngo portrays Rose's sister Paige Tico, a Resistance gunner who sacrifices her life to destroy a First Order dreadnought. Justin Theroux plays the master codebreaker, while Lily Cole plays his companion. Joseph Gordon-Levitt has a voice cameo as Slowen Lo, and Warwick Davis plays Wodibin. Rogue One (2016) director Gareth Edwards has a cameo appearance as a Resistance Soldier, with Edgar Wright and Joe Cornish also cameo in the film. Hermione Corfield appears as Tallissan "Tallie" Lintra, a Resistance A-Wing pilot and squadron leader, and Noah Segan and Jamie Christopher appear as Resistance pilots Starck and Tubbs. Hugh Skinner cameos as a Resistance Officer; while Hamill's children, Griffin, Nathan, and Chelsea, cameo as Resistance soldiers. Prince William, Duke of Cambridge; Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex; and Gary Barlow have cameo appearances as stormtroopers, and Tom Hardy also had an appearance as a stormtrooper, but his cameo was dropped from the final cut.

Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker (also known as Star Wars: Episode IX – The Rise of Skywalker) is a 2019 American epic space opera film produced, co-written, and directed by J. J. Abrams. Produced by Lucasfilm and Abrams' production company Bad Robot, and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures, it is the third installment of the Star Wars sequel trilogy, following The Force Awakens (2015) and The Last Jedi (2017), and the final episode of the nine-part "Skywalker saga". Its ensemble cast includes Carrie Fisher, Mark Hamill, Harrison Ford, Adam Driver, Daisy Ridley, John Boyega, Oscar Isaac, Anthony Daniels, Naomi Ackie, Domhnall Gleeson, Richard E. Grant, Lupita Nyong'o, Keri Russell, Joonas Suotamo, Kelly Marie Tran, with Ian McDiarmid and Billy Dee Williams. Set one year after The Last Jedi, The Rise of Skywalker follows Rey, Finn, and Poe Dameron as they lead the Resistance's final stand against Supreme Leader Kylo Ren and the First Order, who are aided by the Sith Lord, Emperor Palpatine. Following initial reports that The Last Jedi director Rian Johnson would write the script for Episode IX, in August 2015, Colin Trevorrow was hired to direct and to write a script with his collaborator Derek Connolly; both ultimately retain story credit with Abrams and Chris Terrio. In September 2017, Trevorrow left the project following creative differences with producer Kathleen Kennedy, and Abrams returned as director. John Williams, composer for the previous episodic films, returned to compose the score—his final score for the franchise. Principal photography began in August 2018 at Pinewood Studios in England and wrapped in February 2019, with post-production completed in November 2019. With a budget of $416 million, it is the third most expensive film ever made. The Rise of Skywalker premiered in Hollywood, Los Angeles, on December 16, 2019, and was released in the United States on December 20. It received mixed reviews from critics, but would gross over $1.077 billion worldwide, making it the seventh-highest-grossing film of 2019, but the lowest-grossing of the trilogy. It received three nominations at the 92nd Academy Awards (Best Original Score, Best Visual Effects, and Best Sound Editing) as well as three at the 73rd British Academy Film Awards (also Best Special Visual Effects, Best Original Music, and Best Sound). It won five awards at the 46th Saturn Awards, including Best Science Fiction Film. Plot Kylo Ren obtains a Sith wayfinder that leads to the planet Exegol. There, he finds a resurrected Emperor Palpatine, who reveals himself as the power behind Snoke and the First Order. Palpatine unveils the Final Order—a massive armada of Sith Star Destroyers—and orders Kylo to find and kill Rey, who is continuing her Jedi training under Resistance leader Leia Organa. Poe Dameron and Finn deliver intelligence from a spy in the First Order that Palpatine is on Exegol; Rey reads in Luke Skywalker's notes that a Sith wayfinder can lead them there. Rey, Finn, Poe, Chewbacca, BB-8, and C-3PO depart in the Millennium Falcon to the desert planet Pasaana, where a clue to a wayfinder is hidden. Kylo initiates a Force bond with Rey to discover her location. He travels to Pasaana with his warrior subordinates, the Knights of Ren. With Lando Calrissian's help, Rey and her friends find the clue—a dagger inscribed with Sith text, which C-3PO's programming forbids him from interpreting—and the remains of a Sith assassin named Ochi and his ship, which Rey recognizes. Rey senses Kylo nearby and faces him, while the First Order capture the Falcon, Chewbacca, and the dagger. Attempting to save Chewbacca, Rey accidentally destroys a First Order transport with Force lightning. Believing Chewbacca is dead, the group escape on Ochi's ship. They travel to Kijimi, where the droidsmith Babu Frik extracts the Sith text from C-3PO's memory, revealing the wayfinder's coordinates. Rey senses Chewbacca is alive aboard a First Order Star Destroyer, so the group stage a rescue with the smuggler Zorii's help. Rey recovers the dagger and experiences repressed memories of her parents. She duels Kylo, who reveals that she is Palpatine's paternal granddaughter. Foreseeing her power, Palpatine had ordered Ochi to find the young Rey, but her parents hid her on Jakku, prompting Ochi to kill them with the dagger. To spite Kylo, General Hux saves Poe, Finn, and Chewbacca from execution, revealing himself as the spy. Rey and her friends escape, while Hux is executed by Allegiant General Pryde. The group fly the Falcon to the wayfinder's coordinates on a moon in the Endor system. There, they find renegade stormtroopers led by Jannah, whom they recruit to the Resistance. Rey retrieves the wayfinder from the wreckage of the second Death Star, but she is met by Kylo, who destroys the wayfinder and duels her. In a dying act, Leia distracts Kylo through the Force, and Rey impales him. Sensing Leia's death and overcome by guilt, Rey heals Kylo and takes his TIE fighter to exile herself on Ahch-To. Meanwhile, Kylo converses with a memory of his father, Han Solo. He discards his lightsaber and reclaims his identity as Ben Solo. To draw Rey out, Palpatine deploys the Sith fleet and sends a Star Destroyer to destroy Kijimi. On Ahch-To, Luke's Force spirit encourages Rey to face Palpatine and gives her Leia's lightsaber. Rey leaves for Exegol in Luke's X-wing fighter, using the wayfinder from Kylo's ship. Rey transmits her coordinates to R2-D2, allowing the Resistance, now led by Poe and Finn, to follow her to Exegol. There, she confronts Palpatine. Debilitated, he demands that she kill him, in anger, so his spirit can possess her body. The Resistance attack the Sith fleet, while Ben overpowers the Knights of Ren and joins Rey. Palpatine senses their power as "a dyad in the Force" and drains it to rejuvenate his body. Lando arrives with reinforcements from across the galaxy, including Babu and Zorii. Palpatine incapacitates Ben and attacks the Resistance fleet with Force lightning. Weakened, Rey hears the voices of past Jedi, who give her strength. Palpatine attacks her with lightning, but Rey deflects it using Luke and Leia's lightsabers, destroying him before dying herself. Ben uses the Force to revive Rey, sacrificing himself, and they kiss before he dies. The Resistance destroy the remaining Sith forces, while people across the galaxy rise up against the First Order. The Resistance celebrate their victory. Rey visits Luke's abandoned homestead on Tatooine and buries Luke and Leia's lightsabers. A passerby asks her name; seeing Luke and Leia's Force spirits nearby, she responds, "Rey Skywalker". Cast Billie Lourd, Greg Grunberg, and Harrison Ford reprise their roles as Lieutenant Kaydel Ko Connix, Temmin "Snap" Wexley, and Han Solo, respectively. Additionally, Dominic Monaghan portrays Resistance trooper Beaumont Kin, Shirley Henderson voices Babu Frik, and Nick Kellington portrays Klaud via capture performance. Hassan Taj and Lee Towersey perform the role of R2-D2, while Dave Chapman and Brian Herring return as the puppeteers of BB-8, and director J. J. Abrams also provides the voice for D-O. Martin Wilde, Anton Simpson-Tidy, Lukaz Leong, Tom Rodgers, Joe Kennard, and Ashley Beck appear as the Knights of Ren. Amanda Lawrence reprises her role as Commander Larma D'Acy, while Vinette Robinson plays her wife, Pilot Wrobie Tyce. Jodie Comer and Billy Howle briefly appear as Rey's parents, Dathan and Miramir, while Tom Wilton and screenwriter Chris Terrio briefly appear as the performer and voice for Aftab Ackbar, the son of Admiral Ackbar, respectively; and Mike Quinn and Kipsang Rotich return as the performer and voice of Nien Nunb, respectively. Denis Lawson and Warwick Davis briefly reprise their roles as Wedge Antilles, a veteran of the Rebel Alliance; and Wicket W. Warrick, now the leader of the Ewoks, respectively. Composer John Williams cameos as Oma Tres, a Kijimi bartender, Kevin Smith cameos as a Kijimi inhabitant, and Abrams' frequent composer collaborator Michael Giacchino cameos as a Sith Trooper, while Lin-Manuel Miranda and Jeff Garlin both cameo as human and alien Resistance troopers, respectively. Actors making reprisal vocal cameos include: Hayden Christensen and James Earl Jones as Anakin Skywalker / Darth Vader, Andy Serkis as Snoke, and the voices of several past Jedi, including Ewan McGregor and Alec Guinness as Obi-Wan Kenobi (the latter via digitally altered archive audio), Ashley Eckstein as Ahsoka Tano, Freddie Prinze Jr. as Kanan Jarrus, Olivia d'Abo as Luminara Unduli, Frank Oz as Yoda, Liam Neeson as Qui-Gon Jinn, Jennifer Hale as Aayla Secura, Samuel L. Jackson as Mace Windu, and Angelique Perrin as Adi Gallia. Ed Sheeran, Karl Urban, Dhani Harrison, Nigel Godrich, J. D. Dillard, and Dave Hearn all cameo as stormtroopers.

Star Wars: Visions Star Wars: Visions is an animated anthology television series created for the American streaming service Disney+. Produced by Lucasfilm, the series consists of original animated short films set in, or inspired by, the Star Wars universe, with each episode being a self-contained narrative produced by various studios. The first volume of nine anime short films were produced by seven Japanese animation studios: Kamikaze Douga, Studio Colorido, Geno Studio, Trigger, Kinema Citrus, Production I.G, and Science Saru, with Trigger and Science Saru producing two shorts each. The second volume expanded the series to animation studios around the world, featuring shorts from El Guiri (Spain), Cartoon Saloon (Ireland), Punkrobot (Chile), Aardman (United Kingdom), Studio Mir (South Korea), Studio La Cachette (France), 88 Pictures (India), D'art Shtajio (Japan) along with Lucasfilm (United States), and Triggerfish (South Africa/Ireland). The creators at each studio are given free rein to re-envision the ideas of Star Wars as they see fit, while receiving guidance from Lucasfilm's executive team. The first volume was released on September 22, 2021, while the second was released on May 4, 2023. Both volumes have received critical acclaim. "The Duel"Transliteration: "Dyueru" Set in an alternate history, 20 years after a war between the Feudal-Jedi Empire and a renegade Jedi sect called the Sith. A lone wanderer known only as the "Ronin" witnesses a legion of former bandit stormtroopers attempt to extort a small village. The villagers fight back but the leader of the bandits, a self-declared Dark Lord of the Sith armed with a heavily modified lightsaber turns the tide. While his droid saves the villagers, the Ronin, a former Sith himself, lures the bandit leader into a trap and kills her. The Ronin is shown to be collecting red kyber crystals from each Sith he has killed and decides to give the bandit leader's crystal to the young village chief, citing that it can ward off evil. Cast : Ronin During the Clone Wars, a Jedi Padawan named Jay attempts to escape from the war, only to stumble upon a Hutt named Gee. Gee offers to take Jay in if he becomes the lead singer of Gee's rock band, Star Waver, and Jay accepts. Years later, during the reign of the Galactic Empire, the members of Star Waver are hunted by the bounty hunter Boba Fett. Fett eventually captures Gee and reveals that Gee's relative, Jabba the Hutt, wishes to execute him due to Gee not wanting to be a part of his family's crime syndicate. Jay inspires the other members of Star Waver to go to Tatooine and attempt to save Gee; they manage to convince Jabba to let them play one more song together before Gee's execution. The song is loved by the execution's audience, and Jabba ultimately spares Gee and becomes the band's first sponsor. Cast : Jay In the aftermath of the Battle of Exegol, the remnants of the First Order and Sith Eternal begin the construction of two conjoined Star Destroyers that house a large superlaser capable of destroying planets. Using Sith alchemy, they are also able to create two Force-sensitive biological twins named Karre and Am, who they then train in the dark side of the Force. The twins eventually become the leaders of the remnant and plan to use their superweapon to destroy the New Republic. However, Karre goes rogue on the day the weapon is supposed to be fired due to him having a vision of the future involving his sister's death; he also steals the large kyber crystal that powers the superweapon. Am confronts Karre outside of the Star Destroyers in outer space and they duel. During the battle, the crystal is split in half and Am uses a piece to power a metal exoskeleton, despite Karre's warning that he has foreseen this causing her death. Using his X-wing and the power of hyperspace, Karre is able to destroy Am's sliver of the crystal and the superlaser; he crash-lands on Tatooine and vows to rescue his sister from the dark side. Cast : Karre On a remote planet, an explorer named Valco explains to his guest, a former Jedi Padawan named F, the connection of villagers to the planet's environment. The village chief's granddaughter Haru and her fiancé Asu have their wedding, but the next day she must surrender herself as collateral to a group of bandit raiders who have reprogrammed old Separatist battle droids to take control of the planet. Haru's sister Saku tries to fight the bandits, but just as she is about to be executed, F cuts her padawan braid, removes her mask, and declares herself a Jedi. With the aid of Valco, she intervenes and defeat the bandits and then bids farewell to the villagers and departs the planet. Cast : F Many generations after the Jedi Order became almost extinct, Margrave Juro, ruler of the planet Hy Izlan invites seven Jedi to his aerial temple to receive lightsabers made with kyber crystals from his planet. Meanwhile, on the planet below, the sabersmith Lah Zhima finishes constructing another six lightsabers, including another one for his Force-sensitive daughter. She flees with the remaining lightsabres just as he is captured by hunters working for the Sith. Juro's droid gifts the first lightsaber to one of the Jedi, Ethan, and promises that the others will arrive shortly. Kara arrives at the temple and presents the lightsabers to the other six Jedi, who reveal themselves as Sith imposters intending to kill Juro and any surviving Jedi. Juro emerges from hiding within his droid and together, he, Kara and Ethan succeed in killing five of the Sith. The last remaining one, Homen, is spared as he confesses to having been a Jedi survivor corrupted by the imposters' influence. Ethan, Kara, and Homen join Juro's new Jedi Order and prepare to rescue Lah Zhima, who is being held on a Sith-controlled planet. Cast : Lah Kara Shortly after the Great Jedi Purge, a droid named T0-B1 Centuries after the death of Darth Bane and the initial extinction of the Sith, Jedi Tajin and his Padawan Dan are sent to explore the Outer Rim when Tajin senses a disturbance in the force. They land on an isolated planet and arrive at a remote village, where they learn of a mysterious elder visitor who hiked to the mountaintop. Dan follows the Elder's trail and meets the man, who reveals himself to be a former Sith who left the order before it fell apart. The Elder wounds Dan, and Tajin arrives to fight the Elder. Tajin narrowly manages to kill the Elder, who detonates an explosion which destroys his ship as he decomposes into a rocky sediment and dies so all evidence is destroyed. As they leave the village upon Dan's recovery, Tajin tells Dan that being a Jedi means being kindhearted so they do not end up like the Elder. Cast : Tajin Crosser During the reign of the Empire, a rabbit-like alien slave named Lop escapes her captors on the planet Tau. She is discovered by the planet's clan leader Yasaburo and his daughter Ochō, who convinces her father to adopt Lop as his daughter. Seven years later, the Empire has occupied their planet and is exploiting its natural resources. Yasaburo wants to drive the Empire off their planet, while Ochō wants to cooperate with the Empire. Ochō enlists in the Imperial navy despite her father and Lop's protests. With Ochō gone, Yasaburo gives her the family treasure, an ancient lightsaber passed down through the generations. Ochō blinds her father Yasaburo in a duel, then the Force-sensitive Lop confronts Ochō and injures her. forcing her to flee. Lop then vows to bring Ochō back home. Cast : Lop Prior to the initial extinction of the Sith, a Jedi named Tsubaki, has been haunted by visions of an unidentified individual dying in front of him. He reunites with his old love Misa, a princess who has been overthrown by her aunt Masago who has embraced the dark side. With the aid of guides Senshuu and Kamahachi, Tsubaki and Misa make their way to the royal palace. Masago captures Tsubaki's friends and overpowers him, then offers him a place as her apprentice. When Tsubaki refuses, Masago's masked henchmen attack him, but Tsubaki retaliates and kills them, also accidentally killing Misa whom Masago had dressed in their uniform - as he had foreseen. Completely broken, Tsubaki agrees to join Masago, forming a dyad to return Misa to life, before he departs with Masago. Cast : Tsubaki "Sith" As the Sith remain in hiding during the reign of the High Republic, Lola, a former Sith apprentice, lives in solitude on a desolate planet with her droid E2 and is trying to channel the Force into painting her base. However, despite her efforts, the paint keeps forming dark smudges that don't go away. While investigating a droid that crashed on the planet, she is suddenly visited by her former Sith Master who chases her down to her base with two droids and forces her to fight him. Inside, he insists that she is to become the new Sith Master by killing him, enforcing the Rule of Two. Lola comes to the realization that she needs to accept both light and dark halves and promptly kills the Sith Master when her double-edged lightsaber produces one yellow and one red blade, with him telling her "You are the Sith Master now." before crumbling to dust. Now in control of her own destiny, calling herself simply "the Master", Lola finishes the painting and leaves the planet with E2.Cast : Lola (Úrsula Corberó), Sith Master (Luis Tosar) "Screecher's Reach" Prior to the initial extinction of the Sith, a young girl named Daal lives in a workhouse with her friends Baython, Quinn, and Keena. Tired of living there, Daal convinces her friends to head out to Screecher's Reach, a remote cave, with her by stealing some land speed vehicles. The cave is rumored to hold a ghost within its walls, and the friends are eager to find it. Throughout the journey, Daal is motivated by an unusual necklace she carries. They find the cave and run into the Ghost, who turns out to be an elderly Sith apprentice woman that has been trapped inside. Daal has her friends run away, then using the force, she crushes the Ghost with a boulder and then finishes her off with her own lightsaber. After Daal escapes the cave, the necklace is revealed to be a communicator to a Sith Lord called the Sith Mother, who had given Daal the task to finish off her own apprentice and take her place by the Mother's side in exchange for refuge from the sweat shop. Despite Daal's efforts, the Sith Mother refuses to also take her friends, leaving them feeling betrayed. As Daal reluctantly leaves, she looks back at her friends one last time.Cast : Daal (Eva Whittaker), Baython (Alex Connolly), Quinn (Noah Rafferty), Keena (Molly McCann), Sith Mother (Anjelica Huston), Ghost (Niamh Moyles) "In the Stars" During the reign of the Empire, two sisters, Koten and Tichina, are the last of their kind after the Empire conquered their planet and committed genocide on their species. Their mother, a Force-sensitive, led a failed rebellion against the Empire, who have created a factory that took their clean water; she was killed in the resulting conflict, and the factory has since caused severe light pollution as well as water pollution for the sea. While Tichina is convinced that they can defeat them with the Force, the elder and jaded Koten is solely focused on keeping them both alive. After they run out of water, Koten is forced to sneak into the factory to take water from the factory's water purifiers. However, Tichina follows her inside and gets spotted by the Stormtroopers. Exposed, Koten and Tichina attempt to flee, but Tichina runs back inside, intending to destroy the primary water tank with the Force and with it the base. Subsequently caught, she is nearly executed, but Koten awakens her own Force abilities to save her sister and together, they destroy the factory and flood everyone within. As the sisters happily embrace, they see that life is returning to the planet and their mother, who they believe is a star, looks down on them.Cast : Koten (Valentina Muhr), Tichina (Julia Oviedo), Officer (English: Kate Dickie, Latin American Spanish: Amparo Noguera) "I Am Your Mother" Some years after the defeat of the Empire, Wedge Antilles has formed a Flight Academy for new pilots. One of the cadets, a Twi'lek named Anni Kalfus, was inspired to become a pilot by her single mother Kalina but has since come to find her coddling and embarrassing; consequently, she neglects to tell her about a starship racing event from the Flight Academy where families compete against each other. Anni is also picked on by fellow student Julan Van Reeple, whose mother Dorota, pilots a much more sophisticated ship. When Kalina suddenly shows up to return Anni's lunch, she learns of the race and is egged on by the Van Reeples when they insult her ship. During the race, Anni admits to her mother that she embarrasses her, but she takes in stride and has her win the race for them, defeating the Van Reeples. Anni apologizes for what she said, but Kalina tells her that embarrassing her is what moms do best.Cast : Kalina Kalfus (Maxine Peake), Annisoukaline "Anni" Kalfus (Charithra Chandran), Dorota Van Reeple (Daisy Haggard), Julan Van Reeple (Bebe Cave), Wedge Antilles (Denis Lawson), the robot cooker from the Wallace and Gromit short A Grand Day Out appears as a background character "Journey to the Dark Head" (Korean: 어둠의 머리를 벨 수 있다면) During the initial war between the Jedi and Sith, an adolescent monk named Ara believes that the statues on her home planet, whose stones around its base have foretelling abilities, control both light and dark, as one is lit in blue light and the other in red. She resolves to destroy the dark head in the belief it can turn the tide of the war. Years later, Ara, now a teenage mechanic, requests the Jedi Council for a bodyguard on her quest; they assign a young Padawan named Toul to the task. Toul has recently lost his Master at the hands of a sadistic Sith Lord, Bichan, leaving him traumatized and in constant fear. The two of them collect supplies and head to the planet where Bichan chases them. They make it to the statues, but Ara realizes that both light and dark evenly flow between them, making it impossible to destroy. Toul overcomes his fear and with Ara's help manages to kill Bichan. The two of them decide to continue journeying together.Cast : Ara (Korean: Jang Ye Na; English: Ashley Park), Toul (Korean: Lee Kyung Tae; English Eugene Lee Yang), Bichan (Korean: Yun Yong Sik; English: Daniel Dae Kim), Interpreter (Korean: Chwang Kwang; English: Albert Kong), Master Leesagum and Shopkeeper (Korean: Shin Young Woo; English: Greg Chun), Training Partner (Korean: Lim Chae Hon; English: Greg Chun), Master Duta (Korean: Choi Soo Min; English: Jonella Landry), Master Moru (Korean: Lee So Young; English: Judy Alice Lee) "The Spy Dancer" Around twenty years after the formation of the Empire, a group of aliens with heterochromia and small horns run a high class club which is frequented by stormtroopers. It is revealed that the club's primary dancer, Loi'e, leads a faction of the Rebel Alliance that consists of the rest of her staff, and she places trackers on the stormtroopers' armor during her dance performances. One night, she spots a familiar looking officer and in flashback it is revealed that, twenty years prior, her infant child was taken from her by the supposed officer. Against her allies' wishes, she plans to kill the officer, only to realize that it is her child now fully grown and integrated into the Empire. As her group battles through the soldiers and the officer's KX-series droid, Loi'e takes the officer to the roof and offers proof that he is indeed her child, leaving him confused. The club's maitre'd, Hétis, helps Loi'e escape. Loi'e reveals that she left him a holo-device of him as an infant, which itself has a tracker on it. The officer views the hologram, and uncovers his severed horns.Cast : Loi'e (Camille Cottin), Jon (Lambert Wilson), Hétis (Kaycie Chase), The Officer (Rudi-James Jephcott), Mee'ma (Barbara Weber-Scaff), Additional voices (Bruce Edward Sheffield), Additional voices (Taylor Gasman) "The Bandits of Golak" During the Galactic Civil War, Charuk and Rani are siblings that were forced to flee their home and are headed to the city of Golak for refuge. Rani is being targeted because she is Force-sensitive which Charuk desperately tries to hide and are nearly caught when on the train ride to Golak, only to be saved when a Rebel group called the Jangoris attack the Stormtrooper-guarded train. They eventually make it to a small oasis setting run by an elderly woman named Rugal, but an Inquisitor arrives, knowing of Rani and the incident on the train. After tricking the siblings into exposing themselves, the Inquisitor attempts to kill them, but Rugal - revealed to be an Order 66-surviving Jedi - evacuates the area with her powers and fatally defeats the Inquisitor in an intense lightsaber duel. Afterwards, Rugal tells Rani that she must come with her through a tunnel to keep her hidden with other Force-sensitives, but leave Charuk behind. The siblings have a tearful parting with Charuk giving Rani a jalebi-shaped lollipop and Rani giving Charuk their father's flute to remember her by.Cast : Charuk (Suraj Sharma), Rani (Sonal Kaushal), Inquisitor (Neeraj Kabi), Rugal (Lillete Dubey), Maghadi and Scavenger (Sahil Vaid), Conductor, Jangori Leader, and Dhoona (Sumanto Ray), Helper (Rajeev Raj), Stormtrooper (Aviral Kumar), Stormtrooper and Alien (Ish Thakkar), Stormtrooper and Alien (Additya Sharma), Crowd (Shivani Darbari) "The Pit" Just after the Empire is conquered, a large group of Imperial slaves are forced to dig a giant pit in the middle of the desert for kyber crystals, which the Stormtroopers use to build a nearby city. After years of digging, they hit the bottom, only for the Stormtroopers to completely abandon them in the deep pit. One of them, Crux, tells his daughter Livy that he will escape the pit and ask help from a nearby city. He successfully does so and manages to get the attention of the citizens of the clean futuristic city, but Stormtroopers stun him and drag him back to the pit, tossing him to his death. Livy inspires everyone in the pit to chant "follow the light", which echoes to the people of the city. They overpower the stormtroopers and rescue the people from the pit. As they leave, Livy is revealed to have kept a kyber crystal which responds to her touch, revealing she is Force-sensitive.Cast : Crux (Daveed Diggs), Eureka (Anika Noni Rose), Livy (Jordyn Curet), Old Prisoner (Cedric Yarbrough), Commander (Steven Blum), Stormtroopers (Matthew Wood) "Aau's Song" Not long after the initial extinction of the Sith, the people of the mountain planet Korba are helping the Jedi purify the kyber crystals, which have been bled by the Sith. A young native girl named Aau seems to have an unusual effect on the crystals when she sings. Her father, Abat, is trying to help a Jedi named Kratu with finding a way to heal the crystals, but warns Aau that her singing is dangerous. While Abat is in the mines, Aau discovers another cave entrance with crystals and begins to sing, only for Abat to interrupt her, causing the caves to react violently. Kratu attempts to save them, but Aau realizes what she must do and sings again, which manages to finally purify the crystals. Kratu reveals that Aau must come with her to fulfill her destiny as she and Abat have a tearful goodbye.Cast : Aau (Mpilo Jantjie), Aau's Singing (Dineo Du Toit), Abat (Tumisho Masha), Kratu (Cynthia Erivo), Attu (Faith Baloyi)

Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures is an American animated children's television series created for the streaming service Disney+ and the television network Disney Junior. It is part of the Star Wars franchise and follows a group of younglings as they learn to become Jedi Knights during the High Republic era, centuries before the main Star Wars films. The series is produced by Lucasfilm Animation and Wild Canary Animation, with Michael Olson as showrunner and Elliot Bour as supervising director. It is the first full-length animated Star Wars series targeted at young audiences. The series stars Jamaal Avery Jr., Emma Berman, Juliet Donenfeld, Dee Bradley Baker, Jonathan Lipow, and Piotr Michael. It was announced in May 2022, with Olson and Bour already attached to the project. Casting was revealed in February 2023. Six shorts were released on YouTube ahead of the series premiere, before also becoming available on Disney+. Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures premiered on May 4, 2023, and was positively received, with critics praising the show for being an engaging first Star Wars experience for young viewers. The second season is set to premiere on August 14, 2024. "Meet the Young Jedi" Kai Brightstar, Lys Solay and Nubs work together to battle a training droid at the Jedi Temple on Tenoo. After discovering that the droid is too powerful for younglings like them, the trio attempt to deactivate the droid but it proves too strong despite their combined efforts. Kai contacts their friend Nash Durango and her droid RJ-83, who successfully deactivate the training droid. Solay's pet lizard topples several bricks. Yoda saves the younglings and commends them for learning about teamwork. He allows the three Jedi to depart on a mission with Durango. "Lys' Creature Caper" While transporting a tooka kitten to a nature reserve on Tenoon, Nash visits Lys at the Tenoo Jedi Temple. However, the tooka escapes its carrier while chasing a blue insect. After interrupting Kai's lightsaber exercise, the tooka runs amok through the Jedi Temple. Lys manages to corner the kitten inside a bedroom and returns the animal to Durango. "Kai's Daring Droid Rescue" While Nash and RJ-83 are repairing her sailing ship, RJ-83 is swept away by a river current. Meanwhile, Kai struggles during a levitation lesson with Yoda. He receives Nash's distress call and heads to the river to help her. The two race after RJ-83 on speeder bikes, with the river leading down a waterfall. Putting his trust in the Force, Kai forms a Force barrier at the waterfall. This allows Nash to pluck RJ-83 to safety before he falls over the edge. With his confidence restored, Kai is able to lift rocks back at the Temple. "Nubs and the Flower Fiasco" Nubs, Kai and Lys visit a nearby forest to gather a Zeilla flower for the Jedi Temple. Nubs finds the flower perched on a high branch but encounters a large green and red bird, which catapults him into the sky. Nubs uses his Force powers to land safely on the bird's back. After the bird throws him off, Nubs makes a second attempt but encounters the bird again. Realizing the bird is fascinated with the lightsaber, he uses it to convince the creature to give him a ride so that he can pluck the Zeilla flower from a tree. "Nash's Firehawk Frenzy" While returning from a mission to bring back a holocron to the Tenoo Jedi Temple, Nash's starship Crimson Hawk is pursued by the young pirate Taborr Val Dorn's starship. In an attempt to lose Taborr, Nash and her Jedi friends fly their ship through an asteroid field. Working together, the younglings avoid getting crushed by asteroids and escape Taborr and a space slug. Despite escaping Taborr's ship, the Crimson Firehawk is struck by an asteroid as it descends into Tenoo's atmosphere. Nash crashlands the ship at the Tenoo Jedi Temple. "Taborr's Pirate Showdown" When Taborr and his band of pirates pillage the Kublop Springs marketplace, Kai, Lys and Nubs spring into action to stop them. Following a verbal confrontation, the Jedi attempt to retrieve the pirates' cart containing the loot with their Force powers. However, Taborr's Gamorrean associate Pord harries the Jedi. Kai engages in a duel with Taborr but loses. Despite their initially setback, Kai convinces his friends not to give up and they pursue the pirates to the spaceport. Following a tug of war, the Jedi succeed in retrieving the pirate's cart using their Force powers. Taborr and his associates leave empty-handed. "The Young Jedi" Master Yoda sends several younglings led by Master Zia to continue their training at an outpost Jedi temple on Tenoo. Kai Brightstar, Lys Solay and Nubs catch a ride with Nash Durango and her droid RJ-83. Upon arriving on Tenoo, they stop Taborr Val Dorn and his pirate gang associates Pord and EB-3 from robbing a local cafe. After settling into their new home, Yoda sends Kai and his friends on a mission to retrieve seeds for the Kublop Spring festival. Taborr and his gang steal the seeds but the Jedi retrieve them. During the retrieval mission, Kai chooses to lose his lightsaber in order to save his friend Nubs. Following the festival, Yoda gifts Kai his green training lightsaber. "Yoda's Mission" Kai, Lys and Nubs join Nash in a skiff race in the rivers of Kublop Spring. Master Zia allows the younglings to participate on the condition that they do not use their Force powers to cheat. Nash aspires to beat her wealthy rival Raena Zess, who has won the previous races for years. During the race, Raena cheats and gains the lead. Working together, Nash's Team Crimson Bolt are able to catch up with her, coming second place. After their ships get stuck in muddy banks during the race, the two teams are forced to put aside their differences to free their skiffs. Team Crimson Bolt ultimately wins the race. Raena accepts defeat and promises not to cheat again. While visiting the Tenoo Jedi Temple's library, Kai and his friends discover a starship tracker linked to a lost Old Republic starship called the Star Seeker. With Master Zia's permission, the younglings enlist Nash and RJ-83 on a quest to find the lost ship. After navigating an asteroid field, they land on an uncharted planet and find the lost ship and its pilot OG-LC. Despite his track record as a brave explorer, OG-LC has developed a fear of asteroids. With the encouragement of the Jedi younglings and Nash, OG-LC manages to fly his ship out of the asteroid field and continue his mission to Tenoo. His confidence restored, OG-LC continues his mission to explore worlds. "Nash's Race Day" After Nubs falls sick prior to an upcoming school trip to the Kublop Geyser, Kai and Lys embark on a mission to acquire Yara tree leaves, which have healing properties. During the quest, the two navigate a nearby river which leads to a giant Tenoo tree, where the Yara tree grows at its top. Working together, the two younglings climb the giant tree and confront a territorial gangul beast. Following their successful mission, the younglings join their classmates and Master Yia in watching the Kublop Geyser erupt. Kai, Lys, Nubs, Nash and RJ-83 help the Chadra-Fan junk dealer Marlaa Jinara investigate a series of thefts at her junk yard. The five discover that Taborr, EB-3 and Podd have stolen parts to build a Junk Giant to impress the other pirates. The pirates use the Junk Giant in an attempt to steal a statue of Kublop Springs' founder, Kaliah Kublop. After the Junk Giant damages his left hand, the pirates abandon him but the Jedi and Durango are able to convince him of his inherent value as a droid. The Junk Giant is adopted by Marlaa, who names him JG-1 and finds him work at her junkyard. "The Lost Jedi Ship" At Varna's invitation, Master Zia sends Kai, Lys and Nubs to help Gumar and Jam herd wellagrins on the snowy planet of Andraven. The children accompany seal-like Wellagrins on their migration through the mountains. During the mission, the group are scattered by an avalanche but work together to find the herd and Jam. After being caught in a second avalanche, they ride their Wellagrin steeds to safety. They reunite with Nash and their host Varna at a village on the other side of the mountains. Kai, Lys and Nubs fail to retrieve a beacon from a training droid. To spend more time training, Kai reprograms the three training droids to stack objects in the training field. However, the droids begin stacking other objects at the Tenoo Jedi Temple including trays, clothes, and books. With the help of Nash and RJ-83, the younglings are able to power down the droids. The children apologize to Masters Yoda and Zia and clean up the mess. Having learnt about the folly of using shortcuts, Yoda invites Kai and his friends to train with him. They succeed in retrieving a beacon. "Get Well Nubs" Taborr's gang steal jellyfruits from the Rodian farmer Weebo and her grandson, disrupting Kublop Springs' upcoming Jellfruit Festival. Nash, Kai, Lys and Nubs infiltrate Yarrum Tower disguised as pirates, befriending the friendly Abednedo pirate Chigg. They catch up with Taborr's gang, who attempt to flee with the stolen jellyfruit. In the process, their hover-sled spirals out of control, falling over the edge of Yarrum Tower. The Jedi younglings use their Force powers to levitate the jellyfruit crate to safety. Taborr and his gang are humiliated by the other pirates for their failure. As consolation, Nash offers Taborr a fruit and invites several pirates to attend the Jellyfruit Festival. Kai, Lys and Nubs accompany Aree and CAM of the Galactic Society of Creature Enthusiasts on a wildlife safari on the planet Yamradi. While researching a species of critters known as Chylarro, CAM is kidnapped by an undiscovered bird species known as the burrowberry bird. The Jedi younglings help a distraught Aree to rescue his droid friend, whom he believes is being eaten by the bird. During an unsuccessful rescue attempt in the burrowberry bird's burrow, Aree is captured. Lys discovers that the burrowberry bird mistook the droids for shiny berries. The Jedi attempt a second rescue mission and discover Aree and CAM have befriended the bird and its chicks. To honor Lys for her role in rescuing him and CAM, Aree allows Lys to christen the new bird species. "The Junk Giant" Kai learns to fly the Crimson Firehawk under the guidance of Nash. Due to his inexperience, he causes some damage to the starship. Back at the Tenoo Jedi Temple, Master Zia sends Kai, Lys and Nubs to collect Jedi Vector trainers from the Mon Calamari Zepher on Tenoo's largest moon. Durango flies her friends there and takes them on a test flight. During the test flight, Kai awakens a space slug while attempting a "throttle buster" maneuver. After the slug swallows his friends, Kai under Nash's guidance leads the space slug on a chase and frees his friends. Master Zia decides the younglings are ready to start flight lessons. While visiting the Federian forests the younglings and RJ-83 discover that the Gozzo logger Raxlo has been cutting down vast tracts of forests, displacing the native squirrel-like skriffle creatures. After befriending several skriffles, the younglings attempt to reason with Raxlo but the greedy logger wants to chop down all of the planet's forests to export as building material. The younglings and RJ-83 join forces to stop Raxlo from chopping down the largest Federian tree. Defeated, Raxlo retreats and vows never to return. The younglings update Master Zia while reflecting on how the forest is home to various animals. "Lys and the Snowy Mountain Rescue" Kai and his friends dress a training droid as their enemy Taborr, much to the dismay of Master Zia. Zia invites Kai on a trip to a desert world to purchase a new cooling unit for the Tenoo Jedi Temple. During the trip, their Jedi shuttle is stolen by Ace Kallisto, an old acquaintance of Zia who has become a career thief. After Kai accidentally crashes the shuttle, Zia convinces him to put aside his distrust of Ace and work together to summon help. Ace saves Brightstar from being mauled by two large stalaat predators. Reflecting on their adventures, Kai learns that not all thieves are bad and comes to believe that Taborr is capable of changing. Kai, Lys and Nubs team up with the Dowutin bounty hunter Ansen Strung to recapture Raena's runaway pet kibbin Figgles. While Strung is not used to teamwork, he reluctantly accepts the Jedi younglings' help. Following a series of clues, they track Figgles to Marlaa's junkyard. However, the kibbin escapes after Strung attempts to capture the creature on his own. Unwilling to give up, the Jedi younglings and Strung use channelfish dumplings to lure and trap Figgles. The four then return Figgles to Raena. Having learned the importance of teamwork, Strung decides to treat the Jedi younglings to a meal. "Attack of the Training Droids" Kai, Lys and Nubs accompany Aree on a mission to deliver several animals including a gargantua to Sil Gohtta's Nature Preserve. Solay befriends the gargantua during the voyage, whom she names "Garganchie." During a fuel stop on a desert world with red sand, two Besalisk siblings named Slaygh and Braygh stow aboard the ship and accidentally release Garganchie. After rampaging through the town, Garganchie flees to a cave. The Jedi younglings manage to find him but the Besalisk siblings frighten him again, causing him to go on a second rampage in the town. Lys convinces the locals to stay calm and Garganchie manages to save the Besalisks from falling down a tower. The Besalisks apologize for antagonising Garganchie and the group bring the gargantua to its new home. Nash organizes a concert featuring her favourite band, the Ku-Bops. However, the rumble bass player Bruff has gone missing, much to the dismay of Nash and the band singer Metz. While Kai and Nubs help the droids to set up the band's musical equipment, Lys joins Nash and Metz in the search for Bruff. They eventually find an upset Bruff by Kublop Spring's dock. Bruff is unhappy that Metz does not allow him to sing. While the two argue, they fall into a boat which almost falls over the edge of the nearby waterfall. After Nash and the others rescue them, the two musicians reconcile with Metz allowing Bruff to sing at their concert. "The Jellyfruit Pursuit" After Princess Inaya's transport breaks down, she hires the services of Nash's shuttle Crimson Firehawk. Kai, Lys, and Nubs come along to help Durango host the princess. The group are pursued by Taborr's gang, whose starship Iron Talon damages the Firehawk's power couplings, causing it to crash in a forest meadow on Tenoo. Taborr's gang steals a present that Inaya had obtained for her father but she manages recover it with the help of the Jedi younglings. Inaya also demonstrates her knowledge of starships which she uses to help repair the Firehawk and disable Taborr's ship. The group return Inaya to her homeworld. After missing a field trip to the lava fields of Tiss'ell, Kai believes he is having a bad day. To cheer him up, Master Zia sends him to accompany Nash and RJ-83 on a mission to Tatooine to deliver a hyperspace capacitor to hyperspace prospector Mycho Zala. On Tatooine, Nash's ship Firehawk is caught in a sandstorm and Kai accidentally releases the capacitor. While trying to recover the package form Jawas, they accidentally barter RJ-83. Kai and Nash infiltrate the Jawas' sandcrawler to rescue RJ but encounter Jawas. The Jawas take them to Mycho who gratefully receives the capacitor and gives the Jawas a tool to secure RJ-83's freedom. "Creature Safari" Marlaa plans to unveil a new sculpture on Visitor's Day. Posing as an art dealer, the art thief Draiven Bosh and his droids K-2PI and R4-13 steal the Visitor's Day Sculpture. Lys, Kai and Nubs give chase but end up trapped aboard Draiven. Kai contacts Master Zia for help, who tells them to distract Draiven till she arrives. Working together, the younglings distract Draiven until Zia arrives. Following a confrontation, they manage to recover the Visitor's Day Sculpture and other stolen artifacts but Draiven manages to escape. Zia reassures Lys that she can always ask her for help. The Jedi younglings attend Ms. Varish's botany class on the garden world of Langsha-Raang. To reward Nubs for his diligence, Varish gifts him several seeds to take home to Tenoo. However, he accidentally brings home an aggressive grumble vine, which attacks the younglings and causes damage to the temple. Nubs, Kai, and Lys fight back but are grabbed by the grumble vine's vines. Recalling Varish's lesson, Nubs manages to subdue the rogue plant by covering its center, causing it to retreat. After Master Zia returns, the temple is repaired and the grumble vine is transported back to Langsha-Raang for safekeeping. "Squadron" Nash's new speeder is stolen by a young boy named Ori, who has been coerced by a biker gang known as the Ganguls. The Ganguls, led by Sellaccc Orryak, control the nearby town of Aklyrr Bend, where they pillage and terrorize the citizens. Nash and her Jedi friends find Ori, who tells them about the situation. The four are captured by the Ganguls but convince Ori and the townsfolk to stand up to the gang. The gang flee and abandon their loot including Nash's speeder following a chase. Nash and the Jedi celebrate with Ori and the townspeople. While preparing a stew for his friend Geeli, Hap, along with Kai, Lys and Nubs, have to deal with several rodent-like Tikotiko, who hatch from their eggs. The hungry creatures create chaos in Hap's Sap Tap cafe and the nearby marketplace. After struggling to recapture them, Hap discovers that they are attracted to a new stew he makes. The satisfied Tikotiko fall asleep while Hap and his Jedi friends enjoy a meal with Geeli. "Forest Defenders" Kai, Lys, and Nubs travel on a train carrying logs to be used by villagers as building material. On the way to the village, their train is boarded by Taborr and his gang. During the ensuing heist and skirmish, the two train carriages are separated after Taborr accidentally loses the coupling. Kai and Taborr are separated from the others. The two enemies are forced to work together to power up their carriage. Kai learns that Taborr is not as selfish as he thinks while Taborr questions his life choices. After the two groups work together to reconnect their carriages, Taborr's gang briefly turns on Kai but ultimately decide to let the Jedi transport the logs to the villages. Following their adventure, Kai and his friends reappraise their conflict with Taborr. Kai, Lys and Nubs accompany the Jedi explorer droid OG-LC on a mission to recover an ancient artifact known as the Story Stone of Tharnaka, which belongs to Tharnakan species who are presumed to be extinct. The Jedi and OG-LC encounter three thieves led by Ace Kallisto, who steal the Story Stone. Later, Ace reveals that she is working with the Tharnakan Ishbul Ekwesh and the Gungan Tooba Jinx to recover the Story Stone for Ishbul's people. However, Tooba steals the Story Stone, intending to sell it for money. Following a pursuit, OG-LC and the Jedi younglings are able to help the adults capture Tooba and recover the stone. OG-LC and the younglings gain the respect of Ishbul, who promises to tell of their deeds to the Tharnakan people. "The Jedi and the Thief" Nubs discovers that his favorite Tenoo tree is unwell and that the ground is shaking. Together with Kai, Lys and Nash, he discovers that the Gozzo businessman Raxlo has been harvesting the giant tree's sap for profit. The harvester's powerful drill has been causing earthquakes and Raxlo has plugged the underground water with a boulder, causing an imbalance that threatens the tree. Following a rockfall, the younglings are able to convince Raxlo of the errors of his way. Working together, they join forces to unplug the boulder, allowing the water to flow freely again. During their escape attempt, Raxlo is forced to abandon his sap cargo so they can escape to the surface. Raxlo and the Jedi younglings depart on good terms but he keeps some sap for himself. While socialising at Hap's Sap Tap, the Jedi younglings encounter Senna Strang, the sister of their bounty hunter friend Ansen Strang. Senna is worried about the safety of her big brother, who has failed to answer her calls. She also struggles with self-doubt about being a bounty hunter. Together with the younglings, Senna learns that Weebo had hired Ansen to rescue a lost Burogwa, a burrowing animal used to aid with planting Weebo's crops. Kai, Lys and Nubs help Senna find Ansen. Working together, the Jedi and the bounty hunters successfully recapture the Burogwa. After returning the Burogwa to Weebo, Ansen thanks them for helping her to learn from her mistakes and capture her first successful bounty. "The Missing Kibbin" Jedi Master Loden Greatstorm and Padawan Bell Zettifar visit the Tenoo Jedi Temple. While Master Zia takes Master Greatstorm, Lys and Nubs on a tour, Kai befriends Zettifar and the two spend time together practising with Force techniques including hurling. After Bell's pet charhound Ember gets lost in the forest, the two boys search for the dog together while honing their Force techniques.They find Ember but stumble onto the habitat of a Gangul. Working together, the two Jedi use the Force to levitate a large log in order to draw the Gangul away from Ember. The two then return for a lesson by Master Greatstorm. Lys Solay accompanies the safari droid Aree and CAM on a safari tour on a forested world. They encounter an uncatalogued reptilian hatchling, whom Lys christens Diggles. Unable to find Diggles' home and family, Lys proposes taking Diggles back to the Tenoo Jedi Temple. Aree disagrees, saying they should not take Diggles from his natural habitat. The droids and Lys are pursued by a large reptilian beast and flee with Diggs above Aree's starship. After realizing that the large reptile is Diggles' mother, they return Diggles to her and his siblings. Aree adds Diggles' species to the Galactic Creature Guide, giving them the name Mardorsh. "The Girl and Her Gargantua" Following a Jedi lesson with Master Yoda, the Jedi younglings join Nash and RJ-83 in coming to the aid of Zepher, who is being robbed by the Nihil pirates Jaay and Fleever. Against Yoda's orders, Nash interferes in the confrontation with the pirates, who escape on two stolen Jedi Vector starfighters with Zepher. With the guidance of Yoda and her friends, Nash pursues the Nihil through an asteroid field. Yoda uses the Force to open the pirate ship's rear hatch and recover the Vectors and Zepher. The Jedi and Nash help clean Zepher's store. Taborr and his gang are ambushed by the rival Ganguls, who steal their ship Iron Talon and kidnap Taborr. Despite Taborr's abusive treatment, EB-3 and Pord resolve to rescue their leader and seek the help of Kai, Lys, Nubs, and Nash. After tracking the Ganguls down to an abandoned outpost on Dedoon, EB-3 comes up with a plan that involves the Jedi younglings distracting the Ganguls while he and Pord rescue Taborr. The plan almost goes awry when they encounter the Ganguls' leader Sellaccc Orryak aboard the Talon. Working together, EB-3 and Pord free Taborrr and defeat Orryak. Taborr gains a better appreciation of his friends but tells the Jedi not to expect reciprocity. "The Show Must Go On" The Jedi younglings go on a tour of Ootoo Prime's gem mines with miner Ayva Ackler. While investigating recent hauntings by a purported Shadow Beast in the Opal Cave, they discover that Taborr and his gang have staged the hauntings in order to steal Ootooan opal gems. While Kai and Lys confront Taborr, Nubs alerts Ayva and the other miners. The miners scare Taborr's gang away and reclaim the stolen gems. The younglings receive their own gems as a reward. During a lightsaber sparring class, Kai is paired with an ambitious Jedi initiate named Djovi Resmia, whom beats him in a sparring exercise. Kai is upset about losing the match. Concerned about potential rivalry between the two younglings, Master Zia tasks Kai and Djovi with retrieving a damaged beacon stone from the rope path bridge on a nearby Tenoo tree. Despite their initial hostility, the two younglings talk through their differences. Djovi beats Kai to obtaining the beacon stone but loses it when Kai pursues them. After the beacon stone falls into a chasm, the two younglings work together to retrieve it. Djovi confides that they struggle with insecurity about Kai's abilities while Kai reassures him that learning control is better than greatness. "The Princess and the Jedi" The Jedi younglings and Nash travel to Starlight Beacon for a guided tour. On the way, the group responds to a distress call by a group of reformed pirates led by Chigg. Following a misunderstanding, the group learn that the pirates have gotten their ship stuck in the mud while harvesting rare fruits on the planet Galjaero. During a rushed rescue, Brightstar and his friends cause the ship to slide down into the den of a tentacled creature. They make a second attempt and manage to use Nash's ship Crimsom Firehawk to retrieve the pirate ship with a tow cable. The younglings and reformed pirates then undergo a tour of Starlight Beacon with Jedi Master Esatala Maru. Marlaa is being haunted by a mysterious entity which she believes to be a Gloomling. The Jedi younglings and Nash have a sleepover with Marlaa and her droid JG-1 in order to catch the Gloomling. Following a series of scares, they come up with a plan to use bright lights to lure the Gloomling into a trap. They discover that the purported Gloomling is a damaged tracked droid, who was abandoned by its former owner. Marlaa adopts and repairs the droid, whom she names PT-3. "Kai's Bad Day" Kai, Lys and Nubs accompany their fellow Jedi initiates to the planet Kondoraan for sky skimming lessons with the Nautolan Rix Tegano. During their lesson, Kai and his friends forget Rix's lessons about flying with the wind and attempt to follow a flock of flying fish known as chiffons. Flying against the wind, their sky skimming boards' wings are damaged. The trio travel through a desert back to Rix's platform but find their path blocked by a crater. After unsuccessfully trying to ride some chiffons, they use their cloaks to mend their boards' damaged wings. The younglings return in time for dinner. On the planet Omaka, the three Jedi younglings help the farmer Tey and his daughter Fiorna harvest some giant gomgourds for the Dunkutu Day festival. They encounter three of Grandpa Roog's malfunctioning droids, who accidentally drop two gomgouds. The Jedi manage to retrieve a gomgourd and learn about the falling out between Tey and Roog over the latter's use of droids for harvesting gomgourds. While returning the stray gomgourd, they hear Roog's side of the story. After rescuing one of Roog's droids, they join forces with Roog and Tey in deactivating the two other droids, who have gone rogue in the town. Tey and Roog reconcile with the former accepting that the droids do not violate Omakan tradition. They celebrate Dunkutu Day at Roog's farm. "Visitor's Day" Kai, Lys and Nubs accompany Master Zia and Yoda to attend a Life Day celebration on Kashyyyk. Lys befriends a local Wookiee named Johgeshakka ("Jo"), who is old enough to hang a Life Day Orb on the village's Life Tree. Lys accidentally causes Jo to drop her orb, which falls down the tree into the village market. Working together, Lys and her friends search for Jo's orb but it gets scratched in the process. Lys is guilt-ridden by her role in the accident but Jo is grateful to her friend. Though the Wookiee Chief Whitaggikk is unable to repair Jo's orb, they learn that the orbs remind everyone of the love they have for each other. The Jedi younglings travel to snow Andraven where they meet up with Gumar and Jam for the Wellagrin hatching season. While visiting the Wellagrin hatching grounds, they discover that Raxlo has been using his harvester to melt the snow in order to mine Tenga rocks, which prevents the Wellagrin eggs from hatching. Unwilling to listen to them, Raxlo unleashes his droids on the Jedi and Gumar. After subduing the droids, the younglings confront Raxlo, causing an avalanche to sweep away Raxlo's harvester. Following the confrontation, the younglings and Raxlo reach a compromise where Gumar shows Raxlo land where he can mine Tenga rocks without enroaching on the Wellagrins' habitat. "The Growing Green Danger" The Jedi younglings and Master Zia respond to an earthquake that has devastated a village on the planet Vuundalla. After meeting with villager Renaad and his daughter Mina, the Jedi attempt to convince the indulgent King Pychor and Queen Dafne to aid the villagers. The monarchs send their son Prince Cyrus to inspect the situation. Moved by the plight of his people, Cyrus steals building materials from the royal family's stables following a fight with security droids. When confronted by his parents, Cyrus convinces them to help the villagers. He also develops a friendship with Kai. The Jedi younglings come to the aid of Nash Durango and RJ-83, whose garage has been occupied by a flock of firehawk chicks. Durango is anxious because her mothers are bringing an important visitor and potential business partner Gripp Liskell. After several unsuccessful attempts to evict the birds including serving them berries, Lys comes up with the idea of disguising Nash's ship Crimson firehawk as an adult firehawk and using it to lure the chicks to the firehawk nesting froups at Griff's Landing. The plan works with the children earning the praise of Liskell and Nash's mothers. "The Ganguls" The Jedi younglings take part in a wilderness training exercise on Tenoo. Kai is paired with Nubs. Their journey quickly goes awry after their holomap is damaged and the two survive a crumbling suspension bridge. Following an argument, Kai and Nubs part ways. While Nubs safely reaches their rendezvous point, Kai is trapped in a tree by a pair of quadraped ganguls. Using teamwork, Nubs along with Lys and Djovi drive away the ganguls and rescue Kai. Kai and Nubs reconcile and complete the wilderness exercise before sundown. The Jedi younglings escort farmer Gab and his convoy on a trek to start up a new farm. After running out of seats, Nubs has to ride the last pod-wagon, which contains a well-maker drill. The convoy is ambushed by the Ganguls pirate gang, who steal the well-maker and capture Nubs. In captivity, pirate leader Sellaccc Orryak attempts to recruit Nubs by exploiting his feelings about being left out by his friends. After Kai and Lys reach the pirate hideout, Nubs helps his Jedi friends to recover the stolen well-maker and refurn it to the farmers. Nubs learns that he can tell his friends if he is feeling left out. "Bad Eggs" The Jedi younglings travel to Batuu where they are guests of Jedi Master Carver Drow and his Padawan Celesta Kami. Drow sends Celesta and the younglings to obtain equipment for an expedition in Black Spire Outpost and to befriend the locals. They encounter the unscrupulous businessman Ozon Nimbee, who attempts to convince the locals to cut down the town's iconic spires as part of his real estate development project. Celesta exposes his true agenda to the Batuuns. Unable to win them over, Ozon sends his droids to chop down the town's spires. With the help of the Batuuns, the Jedi defeat Ozon's droids and send him packing. Taborr and his gang steal a crate of treasures from the archaeologist droid OG-LC, hoping to sell them off ar Yarrum Tower. However, the grownup Comet Runners pirate gang led by Corr Taldaan steals their illgotten crate. Taborr and his associates EB-3 and Pord reluctantly team up with Kai, Lys and Solay to recover the crate from the Comet Runners. Despite being trapped by the grownup pirates, the Jedi younglings encourage Taborr not to give up. Taborr comes up with an escape plan and the combined group succeeds in defeating the Comet Runners and recovering the crate. Kai and Solay ponder about Taborr's motives for his piracy. "Off the Rails" The Jedi younglings visit Black Spire Outpost where they train under Master Drow and Padawan Celesta. While Kai successfully bests two training remotes during a public exhibition, he struggles to keep pace during a more complex lightsaber sequence. Kai is upset because he believes that he has to be perfect to be a great Jedi. Master Drow disagrees and takes Kai to a Force-strong cave to meditate on his feelings and ambitions. Kai encounters Bell Zettifar, Djovi Resmia, Taborr Val Dorn, and Master Yoda in a series of Force visions. Through these visions, Kai learns that Jedi do not need to strive for perfection to succeed. The Jedi younglings, Nash and RJ-83 spend time scavenging with Nash's friend Eren Kitt and her droid M1-M1 on the junk world of Bracca. While searching for scrap to salvage, M1-M1's power cell is damaged, causing the droid to lose power. The Jedi, Nash and Eren search for a power cell but a group of rodent-like PikPik scavengers get to it first. Following a chase, the two groups skirmish until Eren is able to convince the PikPik to give them one power cell needed to repair M1-M1. As a friendly gesture, Kitt agrees to a trade so that the PikPiks can obtain a circuit thruster for their damaged skiff. The PikPiks generously trade all their power cells for the circuit thruster. Kitt and her friends hope this trade would lead to more sharing and cooperation between the planet's scrappers. "The Thieves of Tharnaka" During the Starship Show, Nash introduces her uncle Luggs Neelo to her Jedi friends. Luggs has acquired a rare XD-7 speedster. After the starship is stolen by conman Draiven Bosh and his droids, the Jedi younglings team up with Nash, RJ-83 and Luggs to recover the starship. Bosh takes the stolen ship to the Ugnaught Eunice Ino to remove its lock. Unwilling to fly the ship, Luggs proposes attaching a tow cable so that Nash's Crimson Firehawk can tow the speedster out of Eunice's garage. When the tow cable is broken during a confrontation with the thieves, Nash convinces Luggs to fly the ship out. As a reward, he allows his niece to fly the ship together. Kai helps a busy Nash to deliver supplies to her family's customers. While flying the Crimson Firehawk, he ignores her instructions to avoid joyridding and mixes up the deliveries. While racing to correct the situation, Kai crashes the Firehawk. With the help of Lys and Nubs, Nash and Kai repair the ship and redo the delivery run, giving their customers the right goods. They refurn to Nash's garage in time to clean it before Nash's mothers return. "Tree Troubles" Following a successful early morning combat exercise, the Jedi younglings catch a ride with Nash and RJ-83 to attend Starlight Beacon's dedication ceremony, which will be attended by Jedi and Republic dignitaries including Master Yoda and Chancellor Lina Soh. Meanwhile, Prince Cyrus Vuundiir reveals that he is the young pirate Taborr Val Dorn and plots to steal the dedication plaque. While EB-3 and Pord stage a diversion with the Iron Talon, Taborr steals the dedication plaque but is pursued by Kai, Lys and Nubs, who believe that he has kidnapped Cyrus. Following a lengthy pursuit through Starlight Beacon Taborr engages in a climatic lightsaber duel with Kai inside the station's reactor shaft. With the help of Lys and Nubs, they recover the dedication plaque. Taborr manages to convince the younglings to release him in exchange for the safe return of Cyrus. Having gained a better appreciation of his Jedi friends, Cyrus later joins the young Jedi at the dedication ceremony.

Sullust A volcanic planet whose atmosphere was highly toxic forcing the native Sullustans to build technologically advanced subterranean cities. It was the base of Imperial factories and the SoroSuub corporation employed roughly half the population.

Supreme Leader Snoke Supreme Leader Snoke is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. He was created by J. J. Abrams, Lawrence Kasdan, and Michael Arndt for the 2015 film Star Wars: The Force Awakens, in which he is introduced as the Supreme Leader of the First Order, a military junta formed from the fallen Galactic Empire. In the films, Snoke is a computer-generated character voiced and performed by Andy Serkis using motion capture. The Star Wars universe establishes Snoke as a Force-sensitive artificial being created by Emperor Palpatine to lead the First Order against the New Republic. As Palpatine's puppet ruler, Snoke manipulates Luke Skywalker's nephew, Ben Solo, into becoming Kylo Ren. The character appears as a major antagonist in The Force Awakens (2015) and the secondary antagonist in The Last Jedi (2017), and is referenced in The Rise of Skywalker (2019). Aside from the films, Snoke appears in related Star Wars media.

The Acolyte (TV series) The Acolyte, also known as Star Wars: The Acolyte, is an American science fiction television series created by Leslye Headland for the streaming service Disney+. It is part of the Star Wars franchise, set at the end of the High Republic era before the events of the Skywalker Saga, and follows a Jedi investigation into a series of crimes. Amandla Stenberg, Lee Jung-jae, Charlie Barnett, Dafne Keen, Rebecca Henderson, Jodie Turner-Smith, Carrie-Anne Moss, Manny Jacinto, Dean-Charles Chapman, Joonas Suotamo, Margarita Levieva, Lauren Brady, and Leah Brady star in the series. Headland expressed interest in working on the Star Wars franchise by the end of 2019, and was developing a new series for Lucasfilm by April 2020. The title was announced that December. Filming took place in London and at Shinfield Studios in Berkshire from October 2022 to June 2023, with location filming in Wales and Portugal. The Acolyte premiered on Disney+ on June 4, 2024, with its first two episodes. The following six episodes are being released weekly. "Lost / Found" 100 years before the rise of the Galactic Empire, the Galactic Republic and Jedi Order preside during a time of centuries-long peace. In a bar on the planet Ueda, Jedi Master Indara is attacked and killed by a woman wielding daggers. The bartender identifies Osha Aniseya, a former Jedi Padawan learner, as the killer. Osha, who works as a meknek doing dangerous repairs on the outside of starships, denies committing the crime when arrested by Jedi Knight Yord Fandar and his Padawan Tasi Lowa. En route to Coruscant, the galactic capital, Osha's fellow prisoners escape and leave her to crash-land on the planet Carlac. She sees a vision of her twin sister Mae, who was presumed dead in a fire that seemingly killed their family when they were young. Osha deduces that Mae is alive and the one who killed Indara. Jedi Master Vernestra Rwoh sends Master Sol, Osha's former teacher, to Carlac with his current Padawan, Jecki Lon, and Yord. They find Osha, and Sol accepts her theory about Mae. Elsewhere, Mae meets with her mysterious master, who has challenged her to kill a Jedi without using a weapon. "Revenge / Justice" Mae attempts to kill Jedi Master Torbin in a temple on the planet Olega, but is prevented by his Force meditation; Torbin has been floating in silent meditation for over a decade. Vernestra sends Sol, Jeckie, Yord, and Osha to investigate this attack. Mae regroups with her supplier, Qimir, who is helping her hunt the four Jedi that were stationed on her and Osha's home planet, Brendok, at the time of the fire: Indara, Torbin, Sol, and the Wookiee Kelnacca. Qimir provides Mae with a poison and warns her that she still needs to kill one of the four without a weapon. Mae offers the poison to Torbin as absolution for his past. He stops meditating and willingly takes it, dying just as the others arrive. Mae escapes, and Osha poses as her to get information from Qimir. He reveals the existence of Mae's master and her overall plan. That night, Sol confronts Mae and reveals to her that Osha is alive. Osha attempts to stun Mae but misses, and Mae escapes again. She later threatens Qimir over talking to the Jedi, but he convinces her to spare him because he has learned that Kelnacca is living on the planet Khofar. "Destiny" 16 years earlier, Osha and Mae live with an all-female coven of witches on Brendok. Their mother and the coven's leader, Mother Aniseya, claims the twins do not have a father. They were carried by another witch, Mother Koril. Aniseya teaches the children that the Force, which she calls the Thread, is misused by the Jedi. They undergo a ceremony to be inducted into the coven, which Mae is excited for but Osha is not. Before Osha is inducted, the ceremony is interrupted by four Jedi: Indara, Kelnacca, Torbin, and Sol. They express concern that the witches are training children and claim the right to test the twins for their suitability to become Jedi. Aniseya asks the children to purposefully fail the test. Mae does, but Osha chooses to pass the test and tells Aniseya that she wishes to become a Jedi. Angry that her sister wants to leave her, Mae starts a fire. Sol helps Osha get to safety, but they see Mae seemingly die and find the rest of the coven dead as well. The Jedi take Osha to Coruscant and Sol promises to train her as his Padawan. On Brendok, Mae is shown to have survived and looking for Osha.

The Armorer The Armorer is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise who appears in the Disney+ television series The Mandalorian and The Book of Boba Fett. Dressed in red body armor and a gold helmet, she is the leader of a tribe of Mandalorian warriors, which includes the title character of The Mandalorian. A mysterious, patient, and intelligent character, the Armorer provides spiritual guidance for the clan, and forges and repairs their armor. Jon Favreau, the creator and showrunner of The Mandalorian, was among the creators of the Armorer. The character was partially inspired by the films of Akira Kurosawa, as well as the history and culture of the samurai, particularly in the character's slow-paced movement and aura of authority. The Armorer is portrayed by Emily Swallow, who provides both the character's voice and live-action performance, while her stunts are performed by Lauren Mary Kim. When Swallow auditioned for the role, she knew little about the character and did not know it was for a Star Wars series. The voice Swallow uses for the Armorer has elements of British and Mid-Atlantic accents, which stemmed from a suggestion made by a casting associate during her audition. She also partially modeled the Armorer's voice after characters from the Lord of the Rings film series. Aspects of The Mandalorian director Deborah Chow's personality influenced Swallow's performance. Kim's combat style in the Armorer's fight scenes was inspired by the Filipino martial art known as Kali. The Armorer's costume took several weeks to make, and it proved to be challenging to perform in due to limited visibility and the fact that small movements in the costume were very noticeable. Swallow wore the helmet and armor costume for up to nine hours at a time during filming. The Armorer has been received positively by fans and reviewers alike and has been described as a fan favorite.

The Book of Boba Fett The Book of Boba Fett is an American space Western television miniseries created by Jon Favreau for the streaming service Disney+. It is part of the Star Wars franchise and a spin-off from The Mandalorian, taking place in the same timeframe as that series and its other interconnected spin-offs after the events of the film Return of the Jedi (1983). The Book of Boba Fett follows bounty hunter Boba Fett from The Mandalorian and other Star Wars media as he establishes himself as the new crime lord of Jabba the Hutt's former territory. Temuera Morrison stars as the title character, with Ming-Na Wen and Pedro Pascal also starring. All reprise their roles from The Mandalorian and other Star Wars media. A standalone Star Wars film centered on Boba Fett was in early development at Lucasfilm before the company began prioritizing streaming series such as The Mandalorian. A potential spin-off series was first reported in November 2020 and was officially announced in December. Filming had begun by that point and lasted until June 2021. In addition to Favreau, Dave Filoni, Kathleen Kennedy, and Colin Wilson returned from The Mandalorian as executive producers and were joined by Robert Rodriguez, who directed three episodes. The Book of Boba Fett premiered on December 29, 2021, and ran for seven episodes until February 9, 2022. The finale episode had the highest viewership for a Star Wars series on Disney+ at that point. The series received mixed reviews from critics, who praised Morrison's performance but criticized some visual effects and storytelling decisions, including the choice to focus on Pascal's the Mandalorian for multiple episodes. The series received several accolades including a Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Award for its visual effects. "Chapter 1: Stranger in a Strange Land" Boba Fett barely escapes from the sarlacc that swallowed him and is left for dead by Jawas who steal his armor. He is captured by Tusken Raiders and fails to escape their camp. Five years later, Fett and Fennec Shand have taken control of Jabba's criminal empire on Tatooine. They receive tribute from local dignitaries and gain the services of two Gamorrean guards. Fett and Shand visit the Sanctuary, a cantina in Mos Espa run by Garsa Fwip, who also offers tribute. Outside the cantina, the group are ambushed by assassins whom they fight off. Shand captures one of the assailants after pursuing them across the rooftops. The guards take an injured Fett to the palace and place him in a bacta tank for healing. Fett remembers his time with the Tuskens: he and a Rodian prisoner were forced to dig for black melons in the desert until they were attacked by a large sand creature that killed the Rodian. Fett killed the creature, saving a Tusken child and earning the respect of the tribe. "Chapter 2: The Tribes of Tatooine" Fett and Shand interrogate the captured assassin, who claims to have been hired by Mok Shaiz, the Mayor of Mos Espa. Shaiz denies this but offers payment to Fett for capturing the assassin and suggests that they visit the Sanctuary again. Fwip informs Fett that two of Jabba's cousins, a pair of Hutts known as "The Twins," want to claim Jabba's throne for themselves. The Twins arrive with the Wookiee bounty hunter Krrsantan and try to intimidate Fett, but he refuses to submit. In the bacta tank, Fett remembers the Tuskens teaching him their style of combat and desert survival skills. After the tribe was attacked by a Pyke Syndicate spice train, Fett stole speeder bikes from a nearby Nikto gang and taught the Tuskens how to ride them. He led the tribe in a successful attack to stop the train and warned the surviving Pykes that they would have to pay a toll to enter Tuskens territory in the future. To be admitted into the Tusken tribe, Fett was guided by a lizard inside his head to a branch, which he turned into his own gaffi stick. A ceremony was held to accept Fett into the tribe. "Chapter 3: The Streets of Mos Espa" Fett is asked by water-monger Lortha Peel to punish a gang of cyborgs who are stealing his water in Mos Espa, claiming that the citizens of Tatooine do not respect Fett yet. Upon seeing that the gang has no work, Fett employs the cyborgs as enforcers and demands that Peel reduce his prices. In his bacta tank, Fett recalls seeking the toll from the Pykes on behalf of the Tusken tribe, only to find the tribe destroyed by the Nikto gang on his return. His memories are interrupted when Fett is attacked by Krrsantan. Fett, Shand, the guards, and the cyborgs fight off and capture the Wookiee. The Twins soon apologize for sending Krrsantan, claiming that Shaiz has promised Jabba's territory to another syndicate. The Twins vow to leave Tatooine and gift a rancor to Fett. After releasing Krrsantan and resolving to train the rancor, Fett goes to Mos Espa with Shand and the cyborgs to question Shaiz. They find the mayor absent but chase down his majordomo who reveals that Shaiz is working with the Pykes. Later, the Pykes begin arriving in Mos Espa and Fett decides to prepare for war. "Chapter 4: The Gathering Storm" In the bacta tank, Fett remembers trying to reclaim his Firespray-class gunship from Jabba's Palace, which was heavily guarded. When he discovered Shand dying from a gut wound, Fett took her to a Mos Eisley mod parlor, where her life was saved with cybernetics. In return, Fett requested Shand's help to break into the palace, now ruled by Bib Fortuna. After fighting the guards and retrieving Fett's ship, Shand decided to stay with Fett. They killed the biker gang that Fett believed to have massacred his Tusken tribe, before flying to the sarlacc pit to retrieve his armor. Shand killed the attacking sarlacc with a seismic charge, though Fett did not find his armor inside. In the present, Fett emerges from the bacta tank fully healed. He witnesses Krrsantan fighting Trandoshans in the Sanctuary and hires him. At a banquet, he urges Mos Espa's other crime bosses to unite against the Pyke Syndicate, but they refuse. With the rancor's presence, Fett convinces them to remain neutral while he fights the Syndicate alone. Shand suggests that they hire reinforcements for the imminent war. "Chapter 5: Return of the Mandalorian" After Din Djarin tracks and kills a bounty, he delivers the bounty's head for directions to a Mandalorian hideout. There, he finds the Armorer and Paz Vizsla, survivors of their tribe of Mandalorian warriors, who inspect the Darksaber that he won from Moff Gideon. The Armorer explains that whoever wins the Darksaber in combat can become the ruler of Mandalore, though their civilization was destroyed by the Empire. The Armorer turns Djarin's beskar spear into a gift for his former charge, Grogu. Vizsla, a descendant of the Darksaber's creator, Tarre Vizsla, challenges Djarin to a duel for the saber. Djarin defeats Vizsla but reveals that he previously broke their tribe's code by removing his helmet. Rejected by the tribe, Djarin takes a commercial transport to meet Peli Motto on Tatooine, who has an old N-1 starfighter to replace his previous ship, the Razor Crest. Working together they fix and modify the starship and Djarin takes it for a test flight. Upon his return, Fennec Shand arrives and asks Djarin to assist Boba Fett in the upcoming war. He agrees, but only after he visits a friend. "Chapter 6: From the Desert Comes a Stranger" Cobb Vanth, marshal of Tatooine's Freetown (formerly Mos Pelgo), confronts and shoots Pyke spice runners. Djarin flies to a forested world to visit Grogu, where he is greeted by R2-D2 and Ahsoka Tano. Tano convinces Djarin that his presence will hinder Grogu, so he returns to Tatooine after asking Tano to deliver the gift—a beskar chain mail tunic—to the youngling. Jedi Master Luke Skywalker has begun training Grogu, his first student, to use the Force. Skywalker helps the youngling remember his home, the Jedi Temple on Coruscant, where he saw many Jedi killed during Order 66. Fett and his allies discuss their manpower shortage, and Djarin travels to Freetown to enlist Vanth and his people. After Djarin leaves, hired gun Cad Bane arrives on behalf of the Pykes to order the town to be neutral in the upcoming war. Following a standoff, Bane shoots both the marshal and his deputy. Two Pykes later bomb the Sanctuary in Mos Espa. Skywalker, bearing Djarin's gift, gives a choice to Grogu: take the chain mail and stop his training, or take Yoda's lightsaber and be trained as a Jedi. "Chapter 7: In the Name of Honor" R2-D2 flies Grogu, who has chosen Djarin's chain mail, to Motto's hangar. Bane and the Pykes confront Fett, Shand, and Djarin outside the remains of the Sanctuary, where Bane reveals that the Pykes killed Fett's Tusken tribe and framed the biker gang. The other crime families betray Fett and attack his soldiers throughout Mos Espa. Fett and Djarin send Shaiz's majordomo to distract the Pykes, allowing the pair to attack the group though they are soon outnumbered. Freetown's citizens and the cyborgs arrive to save the pair, but the group are overwhelmed again by two shielded Scorpenek droids. Motto arrives with Grogu, who helps Djarin destroy one of the Scorpeneks while Fett's rancor destroys the other. Bane scares off the rancor and defeats Fett in a gun duel, but Fett kills Bane with his gaffi stick. Grogu lulls the rancor to sleep, ending its rampage. In Mos Eisley, Shand kills the Pyke boss, Shaiz, and the other crime lords. As Fett earns Mos Espa's denizens respect and admiration, Djarin and Grogu fly away in their N-1 starfighter. In a mid-credits scene, Vanth heals in Fett's bacta tank with the mod artist standing nearby.

The Book of Boba Fett The Book of Boba Fett is an American space Western television miniseries created by Jon Favreau for the streaming service Disney+. It is part of the Star Wars franchise and a spin-off from The Mandalorian, taking place in the same timeframe as that series and its other interconnected spin-offs after the events of the film Return of the Jedi (1983). The Book of Boba Fett follows bounty hunter Boba Fett from The Mandalorian and other Star Wars media as he establishes himself as the new crime lord of Jabba the Hutt's former territory. Temuera Morrison stars as the title character, with Ming-Na Wen and Pedro Pascal also starring. All reprise their roles from The Mandalorian and other Star Wars media. A standalone Star Wars film centered on Boba Fett was in early development at Lucasfilm before the company began prioritizing streaming series such as The Mandalorian. A potential spin-off series was first reported in November 2020 and was officially announced in December. Filming had begun by that point and lasted until June 2021. In addition to Favreau, Dave Filoni, Kathleen Kennedy, and Colin Wilson returned from The Mandalorian as executive producers and were joined by Robert Rodriguez, who directed three episodes. The Book of Boba Fett premiered on December 29, 2021, and ran for seven episodes until February 9, 2022. The finale episode had the highest viewership for a Star Wars series on Disney+ at that point. The series received mixed reviews from critics, who praised Morrison's performance but criticized some visual effects and storytelling decisions, including the choice to focus on Pascal's the Mandalorian for multiple episodes. The series received several accolades including a Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Award for its visual effects. "Chapter 1: Stranger in a Strange Land" Boba Fett barely escapes from the sarlacc that swallowed him and is left for dead by Jawas who steal his armor. He is captured by Tusken Raiders and fails to escape their camp. Five years later, Fett and Fennec Shand have taken control of Jabba's criminal empire on Tatooine. They receive tribute from local dignitaries and gain the services of two Gamorrean guards. Fett and Shand visit the Sanctuary, a cantina in Mos Espa run by Garsa Fwip, who also offers tribute. Outside the cantina, the group are ambushed by assassins whom they fight off. Shand captures one of the assailants after pursuing them across the rooftops. The guards take an injured Fett to the palace and place him in a bacta tank for healing. Fett remembers his time with the Tuskens: he and a Rodian prisoner were forced to dig for black melons in the desert until they were attacked by a large sand creature that killed the Rodian. Fett killed the creature, saving a Tusken child and earning the respect of the tribe. "Chapter 2: The Tribes of Tatooine" Fett and Shand interrogate the captured assassin, who claims to have been hired by Mok Shaiz, the Mayor of Mos Espa. Shaiz denies this but offers payment to Fett for capturing the assassin and suggests that they visit the Sanctuary again. Fwip informs Fett that two of Jabba's cousins, a pair of Hutts known as "The Twins," want to claim Jabba's throne for themselves. The Twins arrive with the Wookiee bounty hunter Krrsantan and try to intimidate Fett, but he refuses to submit. In the bacta tank, Fett remembers the Tuskens teaching him their style of combat and desert survival skills. After the tribe was attacked by a Pyke Syndicate spice train, Fett stole speeder bikes from a nearby Nikto gang and taught the Tuskens how to ride them. He led the tribe in a successful attack to stop the train and warned the surviving Pykes that they would have to pay a toll to enter Tuskens territory in the future. To be admitted into the Tusken tribe, Fett was guided by a lizard inside his head to a branch, which he turned into his own gaffi stick. A ceremony was held to accept Fett into the tribe. "Chapter 3: The Streets of Mos Espa" Fett is asked by water-monger Lortha Peel to punish a gang of cyborgs who are stealing his water in Mos Espa, claiming that the citizens of Tatooine do not respect Fett yet. Upon seeing that the gang has no work, Fett employs the cyborgs as enforcers and demands that Peel reduce his prices. In his bacta tank, Fett recalls seeking the toll from the Pykes on behalf of the Tusken tribe, only to find the tribe destroyed by the Nikto gang on his return. His memories are interrupted when Fett is attacked by Krrsantan. Fett, Shand, the guards, and the cyborgs fight off and capture the Wookiee. The Twins soon apologize for sending Krrsantan, claiming that Shaiz has promised Jabba's territory to another syndicate. The Twins vow to leave Tatooine and gift a rancor to Fett. After releasing Krrsantan and resolving to train the rancor, Fett goes to Mos Espa with Shand and the cyborgs to question Shaiz. They find the mayor absent but chase down his majordomo who reveals that Shaiz is working with the Pykes. Later, the Pykes begin arriving in Mos Espa and Fett decides to prepare for war. "Chapter 4: The Gathering Storm" In the bacta tank, Fett remembers trying to reclaim his Firespray-class gunship from Jabba's Palace, which was heavily guarded. When he discovered Shand dying from a gut wound, Fett took her to a Mos Eisley mod parlor, where her life was saved with cybernetics. In return, Fett requested Shand's help to break into the palace, now ruled by Bib Fortuna. After fighting the guards and retrieving Fett's ship, Shand decided to stay with Fett. They killed the biker gang that Fett believed to have massacred his Tusken tribe, before flying to the sarlacc pit to retrieve his armor. Shand killed the attacking sarlacc with a seismic charge, though Fett did not find his armor inside. In the present, Fett emerges from the bacta tank fully healed. He witnesses Krrsantan fighting Trandoshans in the Sanctuary and hires him. At a banquet, he urges Mos Espa's other crime bosses to unite against the Pyke Syndicate, but they refuse. With the rancor's presence, Fett convinces them to remain neutral while he fights the Syndicate alone. Shand suggests that they hire reinforcements for the imminent war. "Chapter 5: Return of the Mandalorian" After Din Djarin tracks and kills a bounty, he delivers the bounty's head for directions to a Mandalorian hideout. There, he finds the Armorer and Paz Vizsla, survivors of their tribe of Mandalorian warriors, who inspect the Darksaber that he won from Moff Gideon. The Armorer explains that whoever wins the Darksaber in combat can become the ruler of Mandalore, though their civilization was destroyed by the Empire. The Armorer turns Djarin's beskar spear into a gift for his former charge, Grogu. Vizsla, a descendant of the Darksaber's creator, Tarre Vizsla, challenges Djarin to a duel for the saber. Djarin defeats Vizsla but reveals that he previously broke their tribe's code by removing his helmet. Rejected by the tribe, Djarin takes a commercial transport to meet Peli Motto on Tatooine, who has an old N-1 starfighter to replace his previous ship, the Razor Crest. Working together they fix and modify the starship and Djarin takes it for a test flight. Upon his return, Fennec Shand arrives and asks Djarin to assist Boba Fett in the upcoming war. He agrees, but only after he visits a friend. "Chapter 6: From the Desert Comes a Stranger" Cobb Vanth, marshal of Tatooine's Freetown (formerly Mos Pelgo), confronts and shoots Pyke spice runners. Djarin flies to a forested world to visit Grogu, where he is greeted by R2-D2 and Ahsoka Tano. Tano convinces Djarin that his presence will hinder Grogu, so he returns to Tatooine after asking Tano to deliver the gift—a beskar chain mail tunic—to the youngling. Jedi Master Luke Skywalker has begun training Grogu, his first student, to use the Force. Skywalker helps the youngling remember his home, the Jedi Temple on Coruscant, where he saw many Jedi killed during Order 66. Fett and his allies discuss their manpower shortage, and Djarin travels to Freetown to enlist Vanth and his people. After Djarin leaves, hired gun Cad Bane arrives on behalf of the Pykes to order the town to be neutral in the upcoming war. Following a standoff, Bane shoots both the marshal and his deputy. Two Pykes later bomb the Sanctuary in Mos Espa. Skywalker, bearing Djarin's gift, gives a choice to Grogu: take the chain mail and stop his training, or take Yoda's lightsaber and be trained as a Jedi. "Chapter 7: In the Name of Honor" R2-D2 flies Grogu, who has chosen Djarin's chain mail, to Motto's hangar. Bane and the Pykes confront Fett, Shand, and Djarin outside the remains of the Sanctuary, where Bane reveals that the Pykes killed Fett's Tusken tribe and framed the biker gang. The other crime families betray Fett and attack his soldiers throughout Mos Espa. Fett and Djarin send Shaiz's majordomo to distract the Pykes, allowing the pair to attack the group though they are soon outnumbered. Freetown's citizens and the cyborgs arrive to save the pair, but the group are overwhelmed again by two shielded Scorpenek droids. Motto arrives with Grogu, who helps Djarin destroy one of the Scorpeneks while Fett's rancor destroys the other. Bane scares off the rancor and defeats Fett in a gun duel, but Fett kills Bane with his gaffi stick. Grogu lulls the rancor to sleep, ending its rampage. In Mos Eisley, Shand kills the Pyke boss, Shaiz, and the other crime lords. As Fett earns Mos Espa's denizens respect and admiration, Djarin and Grogu fly away in their N-1 starfighter. In a mid-credits scene, Vanth heals in Fett's bacta tank with the mod artist standing nearby.

The Client (Star Wars) The Client is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise who appears in three episodes of the first season of the Disney+ television series The Mandalorian. He is a mysterious, unnamed leader in the former Galactic Empire and subordinate of Moff Gideon, who plays a key role in setting the show's story into motion by hiring the bounty hunter known as "The Mandalorian" to retrieve a "50-year-old", yet infantile alien dubbed "The Child" (later named as Grogu). The Client is portrayed by German film director, screenwriter, and actor Werner Herzog, who was recruited for the part by series creator and showrunner Jon Favreau. Herzog accepted the role in part to help finance his film Family Romance, LLC (2019). Herzog was not familiar with Favreau's previous work, nor had he ever seen a Star Wars film, but was impressed with the screenplays for The Mandalorian as well as the film-making style of the show. Herzog particularly enjoyed filming scenes with the animatronic puppet of The Child, subsequently strongly urging Favreau to solely use the puppet for the character and not computer-generated imagery as had originally been intended for later scenes, calling them "cowards" for considering using CGI in its place. The character and Herzog's performance have received positive reviews from critics.

The Empire Strikes Back The Empire Strikes Back (also known as Star Wars: Episode V – The Empire Strikes Back) is a 1980 American epic space opera film directed by Irvin Kershner from a screenplay by Leigh Brackett and Lawrence Kasdan, based on a story by George Lucas. The sequel to Star Wars (1977), it is the second film in the Star Wars film series and the fifth chronological chapter of the "Skywalker Saga". Set three years after the events of Star Wars, the film recounts the battle between the malevolent Galactic Empire, led by the Emperor, and the Rebel Alliance, led by Luke Skywalker and Princess Leia. As the Empire goes on the offensive, Luke trains to master the Force so he can confront the Emperor's powerful disciple, Darth Vader. The ensemble cast includes Mark Hamill, Harrison Ford, Carrie Fisher, Billy Dee Williams, Anthony Daniels, David Prowse, Kenny Baker, Peter Mayhew, and Frank Oz. Following the success of Star Wars, Lucas hired Brackett to write the sequel. After she died in 1978, he outlined the whole Star Wars saga and wrote the next draft himself, before hiring Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981) writer Kasdan to enhance his work. To avoid the stress he faced directing Star Wars, Lucas handed the responsibility to Kershner and focused on expanding his special effects company Industrial Light & Magic instead. Filmed from March to September 1979 in Finse, Norway, and at Elstree Studios in England, The Empire Strikes Back faced production difficulties, including actor injuries, illnesses, fires, and problems securing additional financing as costs rose. Initially budgeted at $8 million, costs had risen to $30.5 million by the project's conclusion. Released on May 21, 1980, the highly anticipated sequel became the highest-grossing film that year, earning approximately $401.5 million worldwide. Unlike its lighthearted predecessor, Empire met with mixed reviews from critics, and fans were conflicted about its darker and more mature themes. Critics praised the expressive features and characterization of the puppeteered character Yoda, a diminutive creature who serves as Luke's teacher. The film was nominated for various awards and won two Academy Awards, two Grammy Awards, and a BAFTA, among others. Subsequent releases have raised the film's worldwide gross to $538–549 million and, adjusted for inflation, it is the 13th-highest-grossing film in the United States and Canada. Since its release, The Empire Strikes Back has been critically reassessed and is now often regarded as the best film in the Star Wars series and among the greatest films ever made. It has had a significant impact on filmmaking and popular culture and is often considered an example of a sequel superior to its predecessor. The climax, in which Vader reveals he is Luke's father, is often ranked as one of the greatest plot twists in cinema. The film spawned a variety of merchandise and adaptations, including video games and a radio play. The United States Library of Congress selected it for preservation in the National Film Registry in 2010. Return of the Jedi (1983) followed Empire, concluding the original Star Wars trilogy. Prequel and sequel trilogies have since been released. Plot Three years after the destruction of the Death Star, the Imperial fleet, led by Darth Vader, dispatches probe droids across the galaxy in search for the Rebel Alliance. One probe locates the rebels base on the ice planet Hoth. A wampa captures Luke Skywalker before he can investigate the probe, but he escapes by using the Force to retrieve his lightsaber and wound the beast. Before Luke succumbs to hypothermia, the Force spirit of his deceased mentor, Obi-Wan Kenobi, instructs him to go to the swamp planet Dagobah to train as a Jedi Knight under the Jedi Master Yoda. Han Solo discovers Luke and insulates him against the weather inside his deceased tauntaun mount until they are rescued the next morning. Alerted to the Rebels' location, the Empire launches a large-scale attack using AT-AT walkers, forcing the Rebels to evacuate the base. Han, Princess Leia, C-3PO and Chewbacca escape aboard the Millennium Falcon, but the ship's hyperdrive malfunctions. They hide in an asteroid field, where Han and Leia grow closer amid the tension. Vader summons several bounty hunters, including Boba Fett, to find the Falcon. Evading the Imperial fleet, Han's group travels to the floating Cloud City on the gas planet Bespin, which is governed by his old friend Lando Calrissian. Fett tracks them there, and Vader forces Lando to surrender the group to the Empire, knowing Luke will come to their aid. Meanwhile, Luke travels with R2-D2 in his X-wing fighter to Dagobah, where he crash-lands. He meets Yoda, a diminutive creature who reluctantly accepts him as his Jedi apprentice after conferring with Obi-Wan's spirit. Yoda trains Luke to master the light side of the Force and resist negative emotions that will seduce him to the dark side, as they did Vader. Luke struggles to control his anger and impulsiveness and fails to comprehend the nature and power of the Force until he witnesses Yoda use it to levitate the X-wing from the swamp. Luke has a premonition of Han and Leia in pain and, despite Obi-Wan's and Yoda's protestations, abandons his training to rescue them. Although Obi-Wan believes Luke is their only hope, Yoda asserts that "there is another." Leia confesses her love for Han before Vader freezes him in carbonite to test whether the process will safely imprison Luke. Han survives and is given to Fett, who intends to collect his bounty from Jabba the Hutt. Lando frees Leia and Chewbacca, but they are too late to stop Fett's escape. The group fights its way back to the Falcon and flees the city. Luke arrives and engages Vader in a lightsaber duel over the city's central air shaft. Vader defeats Luke, severing his right hand and separating him from his lightsaber. He urges Luke to embrace the dark side and help him destroy his master, the Emperor, so they may rule the galaxy together. Luke refuses, citing Obi-Wan's claim that Vader killed his father, prompting Vader to reveal that he is Luke's father. Distraught, Luke plunges down the air shaft and is ejected beneath the floating city, latching onto an antenna. He reaches out through the Force to Leia, and the Falcon returns to rescue him. They are attacked by TIE fighters but narrowly evade capture by Vader's Star Destroyer when R2-D2 repairs the Falcon's hyperdrive and the vessel escapes. After the group joins the rebel fleet, Luke's missing hand is replaced by a robotic prosthesis. He, Leia, C-3PO, and R2-D2 observe as Lando and Chewbacca depart on the Falcon to find Han. Cast The film also features Alec Guinness as Ben (Obi-Wan) Kenobi, and John Hollis as Lobot, Lando's aide. The Rebel force includes General Rieekan (portrayed by Bruce Boa), Major Derlin (John Ratzenberger), Cal Alder (Jack McKenzie), Dak Ralter (John Morton), Wedge Antilles (Denis Lawson), Zev Senesca (Christopher Malcolm), and Hobbie Klivian (Richard Oldfield). The Empire's forces include Admiral Piett (Kenneth Colley), Admiral Ozzel (Michael Sheard), General Veers (Julian Glover), and Captain Needa (Michael Culver). The Emperor is voiced by Clive Revill and portrayed physically by Elaine Baker. The bounty hunter Boba Fett is portrayed physically by Jeremy Bulloch and voiced by Jason Wingreen (who remained uncredited until 2000). Other bounty hunters include Dengar (portrayed by Morris Bush) and the humanoid lizard Bossk (Alan Harris).

The Mandalorian The Mandalorian is an American space Western television series created by Jon Favreau for the streaming service Disney+. It is the first live-action series in the Star Wars franchise and begins five years after the events of the film Return of the Jedi (1983). It follows a lone bounty hunter who protects a Force-sensitive child, Grogu, from remnant Imperial forces. Pedro Pascal stars as the title character, with Katee Sackhoff co-starring in the third season. Star Wars creator George Lucas had begun developing a live-action Star Wars television series by 2009, but it was deemed too expensive to produce. He sold Lucasfilm to Disney in October 2012, and work on a new Star Wars series began for Disney+. Favreau signed on as writer and showrunner in March 2018. He executive produces alongside Dave Filoni, Kathleen Kennedy, and Colin Wilson; Rick Famuyiwa joined them for the third season. The title was announced in October 2018 when filming started at Manhattan Beach Studios in California. Visual effects company Industrial Light & Magic developed the StageCraft technology for the series, displaying digital backgrounds on a 360-degree video wall. This has since been adopted by other film and television productions. The Mandalorian premiered with the launch of Disney+ on November 12, 2019. The rest of the first season was released through December 27. A second season was released from October to December 2020, and a third season was released from March to April 2023. The series has received largely positive reviews from critics and several accolades, including Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Award wins for all three seasons. A feature film, The Mandalorian & Grogu, is being directed by Favreau and is scheduled for release in May 2026. A fourth season of the series had been in development, but it is unclear if it will proceed following the announcement of the film. Interconnected spin-off series The Book of Boba Fett, Ahsoka, and Skeleton Crew expand on The Mandalorian's timeframe, with an untitled feature film directed by Filoni set to serve as a conclusion to the interconnected stories.

The Mandalorian The Mandalorian is an American space Western television series created by Jon Favreau for the streaming service Disney+. It is the first live-action series in the Star Wars franchise and begins five years after the events of the film Return of the Jedi (1983). It follows a lone bounty hunter who protects a Force-sensitive child, Grogu, from remnant Imperial forces. Pedro Pascal stars as the title character, with Katee Sackhoff co-starring in the third season. Star Wars creator George Lucas had begun developing a live-action Star Wars television series by 2009, but it was deemed too expensive to produce. He sold Lucasfilm to Disney in October 2012, and work on a new Star Wars series began for Disney+. Favreau signed on as writer and showrunner in March 2018. He executive produces alongside Dave Filoni, Kathleen Kennedy, and Colin Wilson; Rick Famuyiwa joined them for the third season. The title was announced in October 2018 when filming started at Manhattan Beach Studios in California. Visual effects company Industrial Light & Magic developed the StageCraft technology for the series, displaying digital backgrounds on a 360-degree video wall. This has since been adopted by other film and television productions. The Mandalorian premiered with the launch of Disney+ on November 12, 2019. The rest of the first season was released through December 27. A second season was released from October to December 2020, and a third season was released from March to April 2023. The series has received largely positive reviews from critics and several accolades, including Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Award wins for all three seasons. A feature film, The Mandalorian & Grogu, is being directed by Favreau and is scheduled for release in May 2026. A fourth season of the series had been in development, but it is unclear if it will proceed following the announcement of the film. Interconnected spin-off series The Book of Boba Fett, Ahsoka, and Skeleton Crew expand on The Mandalorian's timeframe, with an untitled feature film directed by Filoni set to serve as a conclusion to the interconnected stories.

The Mandalorian The Mandalorian is an American space Western television series created by Jon Favreau for the streaming service Disney+. It is the first live-action series in the Star Wars franchise and begins five years after the events of the film Return of the Jedi (1983). It follows a lone bounty hunter who protects a Force-sensitive child, Grogu, from remnant Imperial forces. Pedro Pascal stars as the title character, with Katee Sackhoff co-starring in the third season. Star Wars creator George Lucas had begun developing a live-action Star Wars television series by 2009, but it was deemed too expensive to produce. He sold Lucasfilm to Disney in October 2012, and work on a new Star Wars series began for Disney+. Favreau signed on as writer and showrunner in March 2018. He executive produces alongside Dave Filoni, Kathleen Kennedy, and Colin Wilson; Rick Famuyiwa joined them for the third season. The title was announced in October 2018 when filming started at Manhattan Beach Studios in California. Visual effects company Industrial Light & Magic developed the StageCraft technology for the series, displaying digital backgrounds on a 360-degree video wall. This has since been adopted by other film and television productions. The Mandalorian premiered with the launch of Disney+ on November 12, 2019. The rest of the first season was released through December 27. A second season was released from October to December 2020, and a third season was released from March to April 2023. The series has received largely positive reviews from critics and several accolades, including Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Award wins for all three seasons. A feature film, The Mandalorian & Grogu, is being directed by Favreau and is scheduled for release in May 2026. A fourth season of the series had been in development, but it is unclear if it will proceed following the announcement of the film. Interconnected spin-off series The Book of Boba Fett, Ahsoka, and Skeleton Crew expand on The Mandalorian's timeframe, with an untitled feature film directed by Filoni set to serve as a conclusion to the interconnected stories.

The Mandalorian (character) Din Djarin (pronounced ), known as The Mandalorian, or Mando for short, is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise, who appears as the titular protagonist of the Disney+ television series The Mandalorian and also appears in its spin-off The Book of Boba Fett. Orphaned as a young child, The Mandalorian was adopted into the Mandalorian culture and trained as a warrior, later becoming a bounty hunter and taking the title of his people as a sobriquet. The character is rarely seen without his silver, beskar helmet, which he is forbidden by creed to remove publicly. The Mandalorian creator and showrunner Jon Favreau created the character, partially inspired by Clint Eastwood and his Man with No Name character in the Spaghetti Western Dollars Trilogy films directed by Sergio Leone. The samurai films of Akira Kurosawa (which also inspired Leone's works) were another inspiration, and Star Wars protagonist Han Solo also influenced the character's portrayal. The Mandalorian is voiced and primarily portrayed by Pedro Pascal. Favreau approached him for the role, and close friend and fellow actor Oscar Isaac, who portrays Poe Dameron in various Star Wars media, encouraged him to accept the part. Stunt performers Brendan Wayne and Lateef Crowder are credited as doubles for the character, occasionally solely portraying the character in episodes, with Pascal's voice being dubbed in. The Mandalorian's costume was created by Legacy Effects. The costume presented challenges for the actors portraying the Mandalorian, and the physicality of the character is very important for the performance because small gestures appear much more exaggerated when the costume is worn. Originally hired to capture Grogu, a Force-sensitive infant of the same species as Yoda, the Mandalorian instead protects him from a remnant of the fallen Galactic Empire and becomes a father figure for him. The dynamic between the Mandalorian and Grogu embodies a theme of parenting and fatherhood prevalent throughout The Mandalorian. The character and Pascal's performance was well received by critics, although some criticism was directed at the fact that Pascal's face is constantly concealed by the costume, comparing him to Master Chief from Halo.

The Mandalorian season 1 The first season of the American television series The Mandalorian is part of the Star Wars franchise, set after the events of the film Return of the Jedi (1983). It follows a lone bounty hunter who goes on the run to protect "The Child". The season was produced by Lucasfilm, Fairview Entertainment, and Golem Creations, with Jon Favreau serving as showrunner. Pedro Pascal stars as the title character. Work on a new live-action Star Wars television series was announced in November 2017. Favreau signed on in March 2018, with Pascal cast a month after filming began in October 2018 at Manhattan Beach Studios in California. Visual effects company Industrial Light & Magic developed the StageCraft technology for the series, using virtual sets and a 360-degree video wall to create the series' environments. In addition to this new technology, practical effects were emphasized for the series. The eight-episode season premiered on the streaming service Disney+ on November 12, 2019, and ran until December 27. It was met with positive reviews, with praise for the visual effects, action sequences, characters, performances (particularly Pascal's), the chemistry between the title character and the Child, cinematography, and Ludwig Göransson's musical score. It was nominated for Outstanding Drama Series at the 72nd Primetime Emmy Awards, and won seven Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards. A second season was confirmed in July 2019. "Chapter 1: The Mandalorian" After completing a bounty for Guild leader Greef Karga, a Mandalorian bounty hunter accepts an under-the-table commission on the outpost world of Nevarro from an enigmatic Client with connections to the former Galactic Empire. The Client directs the Mandalorian to find an unnamed fifty-year-old target that the Client's colleague Dr. Pershing insists be brought back alive. The Mandalorian receives a single bar of beskar steel, sacred to his people, as a down payment. He takes the steel to a covert Mandalorian enclave where an armorer uses it to make him a pauldron. The Mandalorian travels to the planet of the target's last reported location, where vapor farmer Kuiil is tired of the constant bounty hunting activity in his area and hopes the Mandalorian can end it. Kuiil directs the Mandalorian to a heavily defended encampment where he reluctantly works with bounty hunting droid IG-11 to clear the camp and find the quarry, a child. IG-11 attempts to kill the infant per its bounty orders. The Mandalorian shoots and destroys the droid, taking the child alive. "Chapter 2: The Child" The Mandalorian returns with the child to find his ship being stripped for parts by Jawas. He attacks them but they escape in their sandcrawler. The next day, Kuiil helps the Mandalorian locate the Jawas and negotiate the return of his ship's components. The Mandalorian agrees to retrieve the egg of a rhinoceros-like Mudhorn in exchange for the stolen parts. He and the child find the Mudhorn's cave, but the beast attacks him and damages his armor. After a prolonged battle, the Mudhorn is about to kill the Mandalorian when the child uses the Force to levitate the beast, allowing the surprised Mandalorian to stab and kill it. He collects the egg and takes it to the Jawas, who crack it open and eat its insides. With his ship's components returned to him, the Mandalorian works with Kuiil to repair the ship. The Mandalorian then leaves the planet with the child. "Chapter 3: The Sin" The Mandalorian delivers the child to the Client on Nevarro and collects the bounty, 20 bars of beskar steel. Uncharacteristically, the Mandalorian asks about the Client's plans for the child and is told that they are not his concern. Returning to the Mandalorian enclave, the armorer replaces and upgrades the Mandalorian's damaged armor and weapons using most of the beskar steel. The Mandalorian accepts a new job from Karga and prepares to depart. Feeling guilty for abandoning the child, he returns to the Client's base and kills the stormtroopers guarding it. He rescues the child from Dr. Pershing's laboratory, where it was being experimented on, but chooses not to kill the doctor. On the way back to his ship, the Mandalorian is ambushed by Karga and other bounty hunters who demand that he hand over the child. He refuses and a firefight begins. Outnumbered and cornered, the Mandalorian is saved when other Mandalorians arrive from the enclave, attacking the bounty hunters and allowing him to get to his ship and escape with the child. "Chapter 4: Sanctuary" Arriving on the sparsely populated forest planet Sorgan, the Mandalorian encounters ex-Rebel Alliance shock trooper-turned-mercenary Cara Dune. Dune is in hiding and asks the Mandalorian to leave so as to not draw attention to the planet. He prepares to leave, but is approached by desperate fishermen who offer to hire him. They want him to drive off a band of Klatoonian raiders that have been attacking their village. He accepts the job in exchange for lodging, and uses their credits to enlist Dune's help. They are housed by Omera, a widowed mother, and the Mandalorian confides in her that no one has seen him without his helmet since his tribe took him in as an orphaned child. The Mandalorian and Dune help the villagers drive the raiders away and destroy an old Imperial AT-ST the raiders were using. A few weeks later, with peace restored, the Mandalorian plans to leave the child in the village, but a Guild bounty hunter finds them and is killed by Dune. Realizing the child is not safe in the village, the Mandalorian departs with the child. "Chapter 5: The Gunslinger" The Mandalorian defeats a pursuing bounty hunter in a dogfight. He lands his damaged ship at a repair dock run by mechanic Peli Motto in Mos Eisley on Tatooine. He seeks work in a cantina to pay for the repairs, meeting aspiring bounty hunter Toro Calican, who is tracking elite mercenary and assassin Fennec Shand. Calican needs to catch Shand to join the Guild, and the Mandalorian agrees to help in exchange for the bounty reward. They capture Shand in the desert, but she destroys one of their speeder bikes. While the Mandalorian retrieves a dewback for transportation, Shand tells Calican that the Mandalorian betrayed the Guild by stealing the child, making the bounty on him and the child worth more than hers. Shand offers to help Calican capture the Mandalorian if he sets her free, but he shoots her instead and rides the remaining speeder bike to the repair dock, taking Motto and the Child hostage. The Mandalorian arrives, disorients Calican with a flare, and kills him. He uses Calican's money to pay Motto for the repairs and leaves Tatooine. "Chapter 6: The Prisoner" The Mandalorian contacts his former partner Ran Malk for work, and is offered a place in a five-man job. He is joined by ex-Imperial sharpshooter Mayfeld, Devaronian strongman Burg, droid pilot Q9-0, and Twi'lek knife-expert Xi'an for a mission to rescue Xi'an's brother Qin, a prisoner of the New Republic. The team infiltrate the prison ship, fight off security droids, and kill the ship's security chief, though not before he triggers a security beacon. The crew rescue Qin but double-cross the Mandalorian. Q9-0 finds a message from Karga to the Mandalorian discussing the child, and finds the child in the Mandalorian's ship. Meanwhile, the Mandalorian escapes, defeats each crew member, and captures Qin. The Mandalorian leaves Mayfeld, Burg, and Xi'an locked up on the prison transport before delivering Qin to Ran. He departs with his payment while Ran immediately launches a fighter to kill the Mandalorian, but discovers the New Republic beacon on Qin. A trio of New Republic X-wing fighters arrive and attack Ran's station. "Chapter 7: The Reckoning" The Mandalorian receives a message from Karga, whose town on Nevarro has been overrun by the Client's troops. Karga proposes that the Mandalorian use the child as bait in order to kill the Client and free the town. In return, Karga would stop his guild from hunting the Mandalorian and the child. Sensing a trap, the Mandalorian recruits Dune and Kuiil, with Kuiil bringing along a rebuilt and reprogrammed IG-11 to protect the child. They meet Karga and his associates, but are attacked by flying creatures. Karga is injured and the child uses the Force to heal him. In return, Karga murders his associates and confesses his original plan to shoot the Mandalorian and take the child to the Client. Instead, Karga pretends that Dune has captured the Mandalorian while Kuiil returns the child to the ship. During the meeting, troops working for the Client's boss, Moff Gideon, open fire on the building and kill the Client, trapping the Mandalorian, Karga, and Dune inside. Moff Gideon arrives, demanding the child. Outside the town, scout troopers kill Kuiil and take the child. "Chapter 8: Redemption" IG-11 defeats the scout troopers and rescues the child. Gideon informs Karga, Dune, and the Mandalorian that they will be executed if they do not hand over the child. IG-11 arrives to save the others. Gideon's forces attack and the Mandalorian is injured. He instructs the others to escape and find help from the enclave while IG-11 removes his helmet to tend to his wounds. Joining the others afterwards, the Mandalorian discovers that the other Mandalorians are gone except for the Armorer. She tasks him with returning the child to its kind before holding off the arriving stormtroopers. The group escapes down an underground lava river on a ferry, but are ambushed by stormtroopers at the end of the tunnel. IG-11 self-destructs to defeat them. Gideon attacks in a TIE fighter but the Mandalorian uses his newly-forged jetpack to bring the craft down. After burying Kuiil, the Mandalorian embarks on his new mission with the child while Karga and Dune stay behind on Nevarro. Gideon survives the crash and frees himself with the Darksaber. "Directing" Favreau interviews the directors of season one: Dave Filoni, Deborah Chow, Rick Famuyiwa, Bryce Dallas Howard, and Taika Waititi (the directors roundtable). Additional segments feature Baz Idoine and Gina Carano. "Legacy" Favreau discusses the legacy of Star Wars with the creatives roundtable (Filoni, John Knoll, Kathleen Kennedy, Richard Bluff, and Hal Hickel) and the directors roundtable. Additional segments feature Pedro Pascal and Carl Weathers. "Cast" Favreau discusses the cast and characters of season one with the actors roundtable (Pascal, Weathers, and Carano, along with Filoni) and the directors roundtable. Additional segments feature Brendan Wayne, Lateef Crowder, and Kim Richards. "Technology" Favreau discusses the technology behind The Mandalorian with the directors, creatives, and actors roundtables. Additional segments feature Idoine and Giancarlo Esposito. "Practical" Favreau discusses the practical effects in The Mandalorian with the directors and creatives roundtables. Additional segments feature John Rosengrant, Misty Rosas, Werner Herzog, Richards, Jason Matthews, Trevor Hensley, Hiroshi "Kan" Ikeuchi, Mike Manzel, Tamara Carlson Woodard, Idoine, Carano, Pascal, and Josh Roth. "Process" Favreau discusses the visualization process used to make The Mandalorian with the directors and creatives roundtables. "Score" Favreau discusses the score of The Mandalorian with Ludwig Göransson and Filoni. "Connections" Favreau reveals the connections between various props and characters of the Star Wars franchise and the ones shown in The Mandalorian with the directors and creatives roundtables. Additional segments feature Roth, Andrew L. Jones, and some members of the 501st Legion.

The Mandalorian season 2 The second season of the American television series The Mandalorian is part of the Star Wars franchise, set after the events of the film Return of the Jedi (1983). It follows a bounty hunter trying to return "The Child" to the Jedi. The season was produced by Lucasfilm, Fairview Entertainment, and Golem Creations, with Jon Favreau serving as showrunner. Pedro Pascal stars as the title character. Development on a second season of The Mandalorian had begun by July 2019. Favreau wanted to expand the scope of the series and introduce new characters, including several that return from previous Star Wars media. Filming took place from October 2019 to March 2020, finishing days before the COVID-19 pandemic forced film and television productions to shut down. Post-production was completed remotely, including the recording of composer Ludwig Göransson's score. The eight-episode season premiered on the streaming service Disney+ on October 30, 2020, and ran until December 18, 2020. It received critical acclaim, with praise for the visual effects, action sequences, performances, musical score, cinematography, storyline, chemistry of the leads, sense of nostalgia, emotional weight, and the return of several characters from previous Star Wars projects. It was nominated for Outstanding Drama Series at the 73rd Primetime Emmy Awards. A third season was confirmed in December 2020. "Chapter 9: The Marshal" The Mandalorian has been tasked with returning his charge, a child, to its people, the Jedi. He begins searching for other Mandalorians he believes can help him find the Jedi, and is directed to a rumored Mandalorian operating out of the Tatooine town Mos Pelgo. There he learns that there is no Mandalorian in Mos Pelgo, but is confronted by marshal Cobb Vanth who wears Mandalorian armor. Vanth explains that he freed his town from the control of the Mining Collective using this armor, which he bought from Jawas in the desert. The town is now frequently attacked by a krayt dragon. Vanth agrees to give the Mandalorian armor back to its people in exchange for help in killing the krayt dragon. The Mandalorian arranges an agreement between the villagers of Mos Pelgo and a local clan of Tusken Raiders to work together to kill the krayt dragon in exchange for peace between the groups. They work together to lure the krayt dragon, which is ultimately killed by the Mandalorian. He leaves with Vanth's armor, watched by a scarred Boba Fett. "Chapter 10: The Passenger" In exchange for information on other Mandalorians, the Mandalorian agrees to take a Frog Lady and her eggs from Tatooine to the estuary moon Trask, where her husband will fertilize the eggs. Due to the eggs' fragility, they must travel at slow "sub-light" speeds. On the way to Trask they are confronted by X-wing fighters who force the Mandalorian to a nearby icy planet because he is wanted by the New Republic for his role in a prison break; he crash-lands on the planet. While the Mandalorian fixes the ship, the child stumbles upon numerous eggs inside an ice cave which hatch to reveal a swarm of spider-like creatures. The Mandalorian, child, and Frog Lady are trapped in the Razor Crest, the Mandalorian's ship, until the X-wing pilots find them and kill the creatures. They explain that because the Mandalorian helped apprehend his accomplices from the prison break, they will drop the arrest warrant and leave him with a warning. After the Mandalorian finishes the repairs, the tattered Razor Crest takes off and resumes its journey to Trask. "Chapter 11: The Heiress" At Trask, the Frog Lady reunites with her husband and they direct the Mandalorian to a local inn where he can find information on other Mandalorians. A fisherman offers to take the Mandalorian to others of his kind, but onboard the fishing ship he is ambushed by the fishermen who want to sell his armor. The Mandalorian and the child are rescued by three Mandalorians, led by Bo-Katan Kryze. She enlists his help in seizing weapons from an Imperial freighter in exchange for information on the Jedi. After boarding the freighter, Bo-Katan reveals that their main objective is to capture the ship along with the weapons for their war effort to reconquer Mandalore. The Imperial captain is instructed by Moff Gideon to crash the ship, but his efforts are stopped by Bo-Katan, who questions the captain about the Darksaber. The captain kills himself. Bo-Katan directs the Mandalorian to meet the Jedi Ahsoka Tano in the city of Calodan on the forest planet of Corvus. With the Razor Crest partially repaired, the Mandalorian and the child continue on their journey. "Chapter 12: The Siege" The Razor Crest requires further repairs before it can reach Corvus, so the Mandalorian and the child take a detour to Nevarro where they are re-united with their allies Cara Dune and Greef Karga. While the Razor Crest is being repaired, the Mandalorian is shown how much things have improved on Nevarro since he was last there, under the stewardship of Karga as magistrate and Dune as marshal. The last challenge they are facing is a remaining Imperial base, which the Mandalorian agrees to help them destroy. They discover that the base is being used as a laboratory by Dr. Pershing to conduct experiments with the child's blood, which has a high M-count. They destroy the base and are pursued by stormtroopers on speeder bikes and TIE fighters. Dune and Karga manage to stop the speeder bikes while the Mandalorian destroys the TIE fighters with the repaired Razor Crest. The Mandalorian and the child leave for Corvus, unaware that an Imperial spy has planted a tracker on the Razor Crest for Moff Gideon. "Chapter 13: The Jedi" The Mandalorian and the child arrive at the city of Calodan on Corvus to find the population living in fear of the city's magistrate, Morgan Elsbeth, and her guards, including a hired mercenary named Lang. Elsbeth offers to give the Mandalorian a spear of beskar steel in exchange for killing Ahsoka. The Mandalorian finds Ahsoka outside the town and presents the child to her. Using The Force, Ahsoka determines that the child's name is Grogu, and that he had begun training as a Jedi before the rise of the Empire. She agrees to continue his training if the Mandalorian helps defeat Elsbeth. They overpower the guards, free the citizens, and the Mandalorian kills Lang. Ahsoka confronts Elsbeth, and demands to know the whereabouts of her master, Grand Admiral Thrawn. Afterwards, Ahsoka refuses to train Grogu due to his close attachment to the Mandalorian. She directs them to an ancient temple on the planet Tython where Grogu can use the Force to find other Jedi and decide his own fate. She also gives the beskar spear to the Mandalorian. "Chapter 14: The Tragedy" The Mandalorian takes Grogu to the ancient temple on Tython, and places him on the seeing stone at its center. Grogu meditates and is surrounded by a protective energy field. Boba Fett soon arrives with the mercenary Fennec Shand, who the Mandalorian had previously left for dead on Tatooine. Fett explains that the armor worn by Cobb Vanth belongs to him, as his father Jango was a Mandalorian foundling. The Mandalorian agrees to return the armor in exchange for the safety of Grogu, just as Moff Gideon arrives and deploys stormtroopers. Fett, Shand, and the Mandalorian repel the stormtroopers' attack, during which time Grogu finishes meditating and the energy field around him disappears. Gideon destroys the Razor Crest from orbit before deploying his droid Dark Troopers, who succeed in capturing Grogu. To honor their deal, Fett and Shand promise to help the Mandalorian get Grogu back. They travel in Fett's ship Slave I to Nevarro, and ask for Dune's help in breaking criminal Migs Mayfeld out of New Republic prison. "Chapter 15: The Believer" Dune uses her new credentials as a Marshal of the New Republic to transfer Mayfeld, an ex-Imperial, from prison to her custody. He agrees to help locate Moff Gideon's cruiser, but needs access to an internal terminal. He suggests a secret Imperial mining hub on Morak. Once there, Mayfeld and the Mandalorian hijack a transport carrying the explosive mineral rhydonium and manage to reach the mining facility despite attacks from local pirates. They acquire Gideon's coordinates from the terminal, but the Mandalorian is forced to remove his helmet in front of others for the first time since he took his Mandalorian oath. The pair are confronted by Mayfeld's old Imperial commanding officer, whom Mayfeld kills when he gloats about atrocities committed by the Empire in Operation Cinder. Mayfeld and the Mandalorian escape with the help of Shand, Dune, and Fett. Dune decides to let Mayfeld go. The Mandalorian sends Gideon a transmission warning that he is coming for Grogu, paraphrasing a similar speech that Gideon had previously given. "Chapter 16: The Rescue" The Mandalorian and Dune board an Imperial shuttle and capture Dr. Pershing. They enlist the help of Bo-Katan and Koska Reeves to rescue Grogu; in return, Bo-Katan will get Gideon's cruiser and the Darksaber, while the Mandalorian considers helping her liberate Mandalore. They use the shuttle to get close enough to crash land on Gideon's cruiser, with Fett pretending to attack them in Slave I. Bo-Katan, Koska, Shand, and Dune fight through stormtroopers to the cruiser's bridge. The Mandalorian finds the Dark Troopers, barely defeats one of them with the beskar spear, and ejects the rest into space. He fights Gideon with the spear and overpowers him, making the Mandalorian the new rightful owner of the Darksaber. The Dark Troopers fly back onto the ship, but are all destroyed by Luke Skywalker, the Jedi that Grogu contacted on Tython. The Mandalorian gives Grogu permission to go with Skywalker and R2-D2 to complete his training. In a post-credits scene, Fett and Shand travel to Jabba's Palace on Tatooine, where Fett kills Bib Fortuna and claims the throne.

The Mandalorian season 3 The third season of the American television series The Mandalorian is part of the Star Wars franchise, set after the events of the film Return of the Jedi (1983). It continues the story of a bounty hunter and his charge, Grogu, after they were reunited in the spin-off series The Book of Boba Fett. It also depicts efforts to unite the scattered Mandalorian people and retake their home planet from remnants of the Empire. The season was produced by Lucasfilm, Fairview Entertainment, and Golem Creations, with Jon Favreau serving as showrunner. Pedro Pascal and Katee Sackhoff star as the title character and Mandalorian leader Bo-Katan Kryze, respectively. Development on a third season of The Mandalorian began by late April 2020, and it was officially confirmed that December. The season concludes storylines from the first two seasons as well as The Book of Boba Fett, and teases new stories for future projects. Filming began by October 2021 and wrapped in late March 2022. Joseph Shirley took over as composer from Ludwig Göransson. The eight-episode season premiered on the streaming service Disney+ on March 1, 2023, and ran until April 19, 2023. It received generally positive reviews from critics, with praise for the performances, musical score, direction, cinematography, and action sequences, but criticism for the writing and pacing, with some deeming the season weaker than its predecessors. The season won a Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Award and was nominated for eight others. A continuation film, The Mandalorian & Grogu, is in development. A fourth season had been in development, but it was unclear whether it would still be made following Lucasfilm re-evaluating their plans for the franchise and focusing on the film. "Chapter 17: The Apostate" The Armorer and a group of Mandalorians hold a ceremony to induct a young child, Ragnar Vizsla, into the tribe. The ceremony is interrupted when a Dinosaur Turtle attacks the Mandalorians. The clan initially fails to defend themselves, but they are saved by Din Djarin and Grogu, who have been reunited. The Armorer confirms that if the mines of Mandalore still exist, Djarin may become a Mandalorian once more. Djarin travels to Nevarro to meet High Magistrate Greef Karga. Djarin helps Karga stave off a group of pirates, led by the pirate Vane. Karga offers Djarin the position of marshal, but Djarin refuses, stating that he came to rebuild IG-11. Djarin successfully revives IG-11, but the droid defaults to his original, violent programming. Djarin brings the parts to a group of Anzellan mechanics, who tell him that they need a new memory core to repair the droid. As Djarin leaves Nevarro, the pirate crew led by Vane's superior, Gorian Shard, attacks his ship, but Djarin escapes. Djarin meets with Bo-Katan Kryze in an old Mandalorian castle on Kalevala, who reveals that after losing the Darksaber, she has abandoned her plans to reclaim Mandalore and tells Djarin to travel there alone. "Chapter 18: The Mines of Mandalore" Djarin visits Peli Motto on Tatooine in search of a new memory chip for IG-11. She does not have one, but instead sells him R5-D4. Djarin, Grogu and R5 fly to Mandalore, where Djarin orders R5 to scout ahead and ensure that the atmosphere is non-toxic. When R5 does not return, Djarin ventures after it and is attacked by several Alamites, a native troll-like species living in the caves. Heading deeper into the mines, Djarin is captured by a cyborg creature and sends Grogu for Bo-Katan's help. Bo-Katan rescues Djarin and kills the cyborg before leading Djarin to the Living Waters. Djarin immerses himself to restore his status as a Mandalorian, but a sudden drop off causes him to sink deep into the water. Bo-Katan dives in to save him. On the way back up, she comes face to face with a Mythosaur. "Chapter 19: The Convert" After Djarin recovers, he and Bo-Katan depart Mandalore, though Bo-Katan withholds the Mythosaur's existence from him. Upon returning to Kalevala, they are attacked by Imperial TIE squads, who destroy Bo-Katan's home, and are forced to retreat. On Coruscant, Dr. Pershing receives a pardon by the New Republic, but is startled to find Elia Kane—a former communications officer who was a part of Moff Gideon's Imperial remnant—among the amnesty program's recipients. Kane agrees to assist Pershing in his efforts to continue his cloning research, which has been outlawed by the Republic. They sneak aboard a decommissioned Imperial-class Star Destroyer to steal the necessary materials, but Kane betrays Pershing to the Republic's lawkeepers and later secretly sabotages the mind-wiping procedure used on him. Meanwhile, Djarin and Bo-Katan arrive at the secret Mandalorian enclave, where Djarin presents the Armorer with a sample of the Living Waters as proof of his redemption. Because she has also bathed in the Waters, Bo-Katan is welcomed to the enclave as well. "Chapter 20: The Foundling" Djarin introduces Grogu to Mandalorian combat training. Grogu wins a training match, but his opponent Ragnar Vizsla is captured by a large raptor. Bo-Katan gathers a hunting party, which includes Djarin and Ragnar's father Paz Vizsla, and leads them to the raptor's nest on foot. The Armorer forges a new piece of Mandalorian armor for Grogu, a rondel bearing Djarin's mudhorn sigil. As she works, Grogu has visions of his rescue from the burning Jedi Temple by Jedi Master Kelleran Beq and sympathetic members of the Naboo Armed Forces. Vizsla's over-eagerness to save Ragnar disrupts Bo-Katan's plan and leads to a difficult aerial confrontation in which Bo-Katan and Djarin rescue the boy unharmed, kill the raptor, collect its chicks, and earn the clan's respect. As the Armorer replaces Bo-Katan's pauldron, lost in the scuffle with the raptor, Bo-Katan reveals her encounter with the Mythosaur, but the Armorer meets her account with indifferent disbelief. "Chapter 21: The Pirate" In retaliation for Vane's expulsion, Gorian Shard invades Nevarro. Greef Karga contacts Carson Teva for help from the New Republic. Suspecting that the attack is a prelude to a new rise of the Empire, Teva informs Colonel Tuttle, but when Tuttle shows indifference, he tracks down the Mandalorian covert and asks Din Djarin for help. Djarin convinces the covert to come to Karga's aid despite their prior confrontations with him, and Bo-Katan assumes command of the attack force. As the Mandalorians overcome the invasion, Vane flees, Shard is killed, and the remaining pirates are detained. The Mandalorians are welcomed back by Karga and the people, and move back into their old enclave. The Armorer meets with Bo-Katan, acknowledging the Mythosaur's reappearance as an omen that Bo-Katan is the one who can reunite all Mandalorians, and bids her to remove her helmet to symbolize this new position. On his way back to Adelphi, Teva encounters the wreckage of Moff Gideon's prison transport, which had gone missing during transit, and finds a fragment of beskar alloy inside. "Chapter 22: Guns for Hire" Bo-Katan, Djarin and Grogu set out for the idyllic planet Plazir-15, where Bo-Katan's former army, now led by Axe Woves, have set themselves up as mercenaries. Before they can meet them, they are involuntarily diverted by the planet's rulers, Captain Bombardier and the Duchess, who ask for their help in neutralizing several repurposed but malfunctioning Imperial and Separatist droids. After stopping a rogue droid, Bo-Katan and Djarin follow its trail to The Resistor, a droid bar, and convince its bartender and clientele to help them. They discover that the droids were sabotaged through nanodroids in the bar's maintenance fluid, which were covertly imported by Commissioner Helgait, head of the planetary Security Office. Confronted, Helgait reveals himself as a Separatist before Bo-Katan knocks him out, and the Duchess sentences him to a penitent exile on the Moon of Paraquaat. Granted an audience with the Mandalorian privateers, Bo-Katan challenges Woves for leadership and defeats him. To help her ascendance, Djarin admits his capture by the cyborg in the mines of Mandalore and his rescue by Bo-Katan, which rightfully bestows the Darksaber back to her. "Chapter 23: The Spies" Moff Gideon is informed by Elia Kane of the Mandalorians' intent to retake their planet. Gideon relays this information to the Shadow Council, a group of Imperial remnant warlords. He requests reinforcements from Commandant Brendol Hux and questions Captain Pellaeon on the absence of Grand Admiral Thrawn. Reassembling on Nevarro, Bo-Katan unites the Mandalorian clans and prepares a recon party to explore the surface of Mandalore and locate the Great Forge. Before leaving, Greef Karga presents Din Djarin with IG-12: a rebuilt version of IG-11, which is able to be controlled by Grogu. On Mandalore, the group meets another surviving clan, who is loyal to Bo-Katan. Bo-Katan admits that she surrendered to Gideon shortly after the Night of a Thousand Tears, hoping that her people would be spared from further harm. The party finds the Great Forge but is ambushed by beskar-enhanced stormtroopers. Djarin is captured by a beskar-clad Gideon, who reveals his intent to complete the Great Purge of Mandalore. He attempts to kill the search party, but Bo-Katan uses the Darksaber to make an escape for the group. Paz Vizsla stays behind to buy time, but is killed by Gideon's Praetorian Guards. "Chapter 24: The Return" Bo-Katan and her reconnaissance squad retreat from Moff Gideon's base. Upon returning to the Mandalorian flagship, Axe Woves sends the remaining Mandalorians to reinforce the planetary troops, while he defends the ship from Imperial TIE squadrons. With assistance from Grogu, Din Djarin escapes from captivity and seeks out Gideon. Djarin and Grogu discover cloning tanks filled with Force-sensitive clones of Gideon, and Djarin destroys them. After a lengthy skirmish between the Mandalorians and the beskar-enhanced stormtroopers within the base, Bo-Katan, Djarin, and Grogu make a final stand against Gideon and his Praetorian Guards, in which the Darksaber is destroyed. Woves rams the Mandalorian capital ship into the Imperial base and Gideon is consumed by the resulting blast; Grogu protects himself, Bo-Katan and Djarin from the blast with a Force barrier. After the battle, the Mandalorians restart the Great Forge and Djarin formally adopts Grogu. Afterwards, Djarin takes up honest contract work with Carson Teva and moves into a cabin on the outskirts of Nevarro's capital, while IG-11 is rebuilt by the Anzellan mechanics to serve as Nevarro's new marshal.

Tobias Beckett Tobias Beckett is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise, first appearing and portrayed by Woody Harrelson in the 2018 film Solo: A Star Wars Story. He is a thief working for the Crimson Dawn crime syndicate and the former mentor of Han Solo, whom he later betrays. Beckett is eventually killed by Solo.

Vice-Admiral Holdo Vice-Admiral Amilyn Holdo is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. She first appeared in the 2017 novel Star Wars: Leia, Princess of Alderaan, a prequel to Star Wars: The Last Jedi. In the novel, Holdo and Leia Organa meet as teenagers when they are both enrolled in Coruscant's Apprentice Legislature, with Holdo subsequently becoming an important member of the Rebel Alliance. Holdo plays a large supporting role in the film, in which she is portrayed by Laura Dern as a member of Organa's Resistance, as well as a number of Star Wars comics.

Watto Watto is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise, featured in the films The Phantom Menace and Attack of the Clones. He is computer-generated and is voiced by voice actor Andy Secombe. He is a mean-tempered, greedy Toydarian, and owner of a second-hand goods store in Mos Espa on the planet Tatooine. Among Watto's belongings are the slaves Shmi Skywalker and her son, Anakin. He acquires them after winning a podracing bet with Gardulla the Hutt, and he puts them both to work in his store. Anakin demonstrates an incredible aptitude for equipment repair, and Watto decides to profit from it by having the boy fix various broken equipment in the store. He eventually loses Anakin in a podracing bet with Qui-Gon Jinn when he bets on a competitor, Sebulba, who is defeated by Anakin.

Wedge Antilles Wedge Antilles is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. He is a supporting character portrayed by Denis Lawson in the original Star Wars trilogy, and voiced by David Ankrum in Episode IV – A New Hope (1977) and Rogue One (2016). He is also featured in the Star Wars expanded universe, most notably as the lead character in most of the X-Wing novels. Antilles has also appeared in the sequel trilogy film The Rise of Skywalker (2019), with Lawson reprising his role; in the 2014 animated series Star Wars Rebels, voiced by Nathan Kress; and in the 2023 second volume of Star Wars: Visions, voiced again by Lawson. Before defecting to the Rebel Alliance, Antilles was an Imperial cadet (callsign: TIE SS25) of the Skystrike Academy. Antilles founded Rogue Squadron with his friend Luke Skywalker. His superior piloting skills, in-depth knowledge of Imperial military doctrine, and tactical leadership quickly propelled him through the ranks to become Marshal of the Alliance Starfighter Corps. Antilles is notable for having participated in more starfighter battles ending with decisive victories than any other character: he led the allied assault during the Battle of Exegol; he piloted a snowspeeder in the defense of Echo Base on Hoth; and is the only Rebel starfighter pilot to have survived both attack runs on the Death Stars at the battles of Yavin and Endor.

Wicket W. Warrick Wicket Wystri Warrick, commonly known as Wicket W. Warrick, is a fictional character from the Star Wars franchise, first introduced and portrayed by Warwick Davis in the 1983 film Return of the Jedi. Warrick appeared in two made-for-television movies, an animated series, and promotional media for Star Wars from 1983 to 1986, all of which are a part of the Star Wars Legends continuity. Davis reprised the role in the 2019 theatrical film The Rise of Skywalker, appearing in a brief cameo. Wicket is a diminutive teddy bear-like creature known as an Ewok, living on the forest moon of Endor and eventually participating in the Battle of Endor as an ally of the Rebel Alliance.

Yoda Yoda () is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. He is a small, green humanoid alien who is powerful with The Force and is a leading member of the Jedi Order until its near-annihilation. Yoda first appears in the 1980 film The Empire Strikes Back, in which he is voiced and puppeteered by Frank Oz, who reprises the role in Return of the Jedi, the prequel trilogy, and the sequel trilogy. In addition to films, the character appears in animated series, comics, novels, video games and commercials. In the original trilogy, Yoda lives in solitude on the swamp planet Dagobah. He is introduced as a former mentor of Obi-Wan Kenobi, and he trains Luke Skywalker in the ways of the Force until his death at the age of 900. In the prequel trilogy, Yoda leads the Jedi High Council and trains young Jedi until they are assigned to a master. When the Clone Wars break out, he becomes a general in the army of the Republic and leads several legions of clone troopers. Yoda is one of the few Jedi to survive the events of Order 66 at the end of the war, when he battles Darth Sidious and is forced to go into hiding. Yoda's Force spirit appears again in the sequel trilogy, advising an older Luke on his training of Rey.